Perspective Registered U.S. Patent Office Two Views Divided World RAYMOND HEN two such authentic leaders Was James Conant and Dwight Eisenhower publish essentially the same message, Americans may well note and consider its implications. The Harvard president’s major concern “Education Divided World.” Eisenhower’s the chronicle great war. But both cases the for- The hope Conant, the scientist. change and the irresistible pressure facts. the Marxist thesis the dire fate non-Communist countries ward look divided world, Amer- ideology may torn apart from with- in. Hope for this, incidental- ly, has already appeared the apostasy Russian leaders like Varga, who was punished for saying that America was not likely col- lapse soon the Proph- had ordered. This possible victory, both ica’s place it, and the need for intellectual and economic well military preparedness. Without discounting the danger unpremeditated war, both men reject out hand the notion “pre- ventive” war, which would not prevent but would pre- cipitate chaos. Both appraise the leaders the Kremlin essentially different from the Nazi apostles military aggression. Eisenhower, implication, and Conant, more positively, doubt that war will come the foreseeable future —barring accident. The Marxist, Conant points out, believes the next war must civil war. Meanwhile, there will continue that icy status mutual fear, dislike, and subtle pressure described Commu- nist terms “no peace, war.” There will little relief this strained relationship, for the devout Communist believes destiny his. Russian power must not mistaken for mere revival nineteenth-cen- tury nationalism pan-Slavism; is, rather, thoroughly indoctrinated pop- ulation burning with ideological zeal which only efficient mass educa- tion can achieve after three decades unremitting discipline. oTH Conant and Eisenhower agree armed strength warning those Communists MOLEY whose respect extended only power, although the scientist differs somewhat from the general the exact nature military preparedness. should noted that these presi- dents great universities both stress— Conant his book and Eisenhower his Columbia University inaugural address—the vast importance in- cluding the study the Russian economic, political, and social system our educational programs. can frustrated—if depression can avoided here and living stand- ards can continue rise with greatey and greater equality opportunity— the massive structure writers Communist declare, can come only maintain the stability, productivity, and promise our own civilization. “Physi- cal means and skillful organization,” says Eisenhower, “may see [democ- racy] safely through crisis, but only basically the democracy our day satisfies the mental, moral, and physi- cal wants the masses living under can continue exist.” this point, Conant presents his six goals our system: “(1) The con- tinuation form government based free elections and free ex- pression opinion. (2) continua- tion the many relatively independ- ent government units, towns, cities, states, and the Federal government— flexible though complex system which allows for the maximum ‘home rule.’ (3) much greater de- gree honesty and efficiency all these governmental units. (4) The continuation our highly competitive economic system with its wide diver- gency pecuniary rewards. (5) greater degree mobility and fluidity and lesser degree social distinc- tion between occupational groups. (6) greater degree equality oppor- tunity for the youth each succeed- ing generation.” job most difficult because essence compromise. seeks equality opportunity through the wise use government, while must avoid the stifling initiative through too much government. That compromise home must the basis permanence divided world. Newsweek, December 19%
