Title: Voting Records Belie the Tales of Hoffman
Date: 1956-10-27
Publication: LAT
Text: RAYMOND MOLEY: Voting Records Belie the Tales of Hoffman In Paul Hoffman's re- cent article in Collier's, the latest in many of this man's indiscretions, he cites Sens. Malone, Jenner, Welker and McCarthy. as "unap- peasables." For them he apparently sees no hope. Sens. Schoeppel, Dworshak and Goldwater are "men of faint hope" who neverthe- less can be saved by the mediating influence of Sen. Knowland. It is interesting to note that these Senators in- curred the rancor of Hoff- man by voting against his confirmation as a member of the U.S. delegation to the United Nations. The article is therefore discredited on its face because it repre- sents personal spite. Apparently, Hoffman be- lieves his intimacy with the President to be so close that an affront to him is an affront to the President. In other words: "Love me, love my delegate to the U.N." Hoffman's article, how- ever, is not an accurate representation of the posi- tion and voting record of these Senators. The attack is wholly unsupported by factual authority except, perhaps, in the case of Sen. McCarthy. All sorts of tricks can be performed with voting rec- ords to make a member of Congress about anything that is desired. But the most accurate formula for the measurement of a mem- ber's loyalty to the Presi- dent was placed in the Con- gressional Records of Aug. 17 and 20 by the respective chairmen of the Republi- can Campaign Committees of the two houses. Under that formula, which was described at some length in some arti- cles I wrote in Newsweek in July and September, is- sues are excluded in which the President was sup- ported by both parties, with no record opposition, or by majorities of both parties. The real measure of sup- port comes in those roll calls in which a majority of Republicans favored and a majority of Democrats op- posed the President. Here the lines were truly drawn. Here the President's lead- ership was really called into question. Here the chips were down. * On these, the Senators named by Hoffman were in opposition to the President only in the percentages in- dicated as follows: McCar- thy, 22.3; Malone, 19.7; Dworshak, 18.6; Welker, 15.9; Goldwater, 11.7; Jen- ner, 11.2; Schoeppel, 10.1. The deviation of all Re- publican Senators in all of this class of roll calls in both Congresses was 17%. Thus Welker, Goldwater, Jenner and Schoeppel ranked well above many Senators of whom Hoffman would probably approve very heartily. Hoffman's reckless attack upon these loyal members of the President's party was not only a serious in- jury to the Eisenhower- Nixon ticket but a vicious and undeserved reflection on Republican Senators whom the President must, if elected, continue to de- pend on in the years ahead. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: RAYMOND MOLEY: Voting Records Belie the Tales of Hoffman In Paul Hoffman's re-
cent article in Collier's, the latest in many of this man's indiscretions, he
cites Sens. Malone, Jenner, Welker and McCarthy. as "unap- peasables." For them
he apparently sees no hope. Sens. Schoeppel, Dworshak and Goldwater are "men of
faint hope" who neverthe- less can be saved by the mediating influence of Sen.
Knowland. It is interesting to note that these Senators in- curred the rancor
of Hoff- man by voting against his confirmation as a member of the U.S.
delegation to the United Nations. The article is therefore discredited on its
face because it repre- sents personal spite. Apparently, Hoffman be- lieves his
intimacy with the President to be so close that an affront to him is an affront
to the President. In other words: "Love me, love my delegate to the U.N."
Hoffman's article, how- ever, is not an accurate representation of the posi-
tion and voting record of these Senators. The attack is wholly unsupported by
factual authority except, perhaps, in the case of Sen. McCarthy. All sorts of
tricks can be performed with voting rec- ords to make a member of Congress
about anything that is desired. But the most accurate formula for the
measurement of a mem- ber's loyalty to the Presi- dent was placed in the Con-
gressional Records of Aug. 17 and 20 by the respective chairmen of the Republi-
can Campaign Committees of the two houses. Under that formula, which was
described at some length in some arti- cles I wrote in Newsweek in July and
September, is- sues are excluded in which the President was sup- ported by both
parties, with no record opposition, or by majorities of both parties. The real
measure of sup- port comes in those roll calls in which a majority of
Republicans favored and a majority of Democrats op- posed the President. Here
the lines were truly drawn. Here the President's lead- ership was really called
into question. Here the chips were down. * On these, the Senators named by
Hoffman were in opposition to the President only in the percentages in- dicated
as follows: McCar- thy, 22.3; Malone, 19.7; Dworshak, 18.6; Welker, 15.9;
Goldwater, 11.7; Jen- ner, 11.2; Schoeppel, 10.1. The deviation of all Re-
publican Senators in all of this class of roll calls in both Congresses was
17%. Thus Welker, Goldwater, Jenner and Schoeppel ranked well above many
Senators of whom Hoffman would probably approve very heartily. Hoffman's
reckless attack upon these loyal members of the President's party was not only
a serious in- jury to the Eisenhower- Nixon ticket but a vicious and undeserved
reflection on Republican Senators whom the President must, if elected, continue
to de- pend on in the years ahead. Reproduced with permission of the copyright
owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: The Issue In Arizona: THE NEW MACHINE
Date: 1957-09-23
Publication: Newsweek
Text: Perspective Registered U.S. Patent Office The Issue In Arizona by Raymond Moley PHOENIX—In 1958, Arizona will be a major center of political interest, just as Ohio was in 1950. For the campaign for the re-election of Sen. Barry Goldwater, like that of Senator Taft seven years ago, brings into sharp focus the issue between traditional conservatism and the collectivist aims of the political machines of the big unions. In Taft’s case, there was on trial the Taft-Hartley Act, which en- deavored to bring the tremendous power of the unions within the realm of law and order. In Goldwater’s case, the issue is whether the basic reform in Taft-Hartley, which was to put the unions within the same rules in political action as corporations, shall be maintained. Since Arizona is a small state popu- lation-wise, the AFL-CIO Committee on Political Education will no doubt follow the plan of action by which Oregon, Idaho, and Colorado were taken in 1956. For the impact of im- mense power coming over state lines from what is substantially a national political party is difficult to resist. Arizona is in a process of bewilder- ing growth. Ten years ago, agriculture was the leading industry. But the state has since had a singular attrac- tion for manufacturing—both new and small concerns and branches of big ones. Its output has multiplied four- fold in eleven years. And what is sig- nificant politically, its manufacturing employment has tripled. THE NEW MACHINE Goldwater, a businessman, was elected senator in 1952. Because of his forthrightness and remarkable ca- pacity for self-expression, he has be- come an outstanding national figure. Most important has been his stand on the rights and wrongs of the politi- cal arms of the unions. Goldwater has seen that the dere- lictions in unionism which have been exposed by the McClellan committee are not the most serious problems in that field. For hoodlumism and rack- eteering are manifestations of civil disorder for which the remedy is mostly local police action. The uses of union treasuries for the creature comforts and private business trans- actions of leaders are serious, but they can be curbed by existing legal proc- esses and by action within the labor movement itself. Even the mishan- dling of welfare funds can be cor- rected by the appropriate arms of the Federal government. But vastly more serious is the de- liberate, overt, and systematic use of the general funds and employed per- sonnel of certain unions for the pur- pose of building a gigantic political machine. This makes possible the ac- tual capture of the government itself in many states and in the Congress of the United States. If, through the capture of the Democratic Party over much of the nation, these forces can control legislation, all efforts to control the abuses revealed in the McClellan hearings must be frustrated. As Jus- tice Frankfurter said of this use of political power in speaking for the Court in the UAW case last March: “What is involved here is the integ- rity of the electoral process.” THE CAPTIVES The root of the great power exer- cised by the leaders who control those unions is the fact that the closed or union shop makes captive the treas- uries, the officers, and shop stewards. This brings into the picture the funda- mental rights of a man or woman to join or not to join a union. Ari- zona has a right-to-work law, and Goldwater has been a champion of such legislation generally. No doubt, the effort will be made in next year’s campaign to depict Goldwater as an enemy of labor. But the interests of every union member are involved in this great effort to turn the labor movement into a political party. Goldwater himself has stated the case this way: “A political party cannot be a bargaining agent in a free country. A political party cannot dic- tate the terms under which labor and management will work… When or- ganized labor takes on the appear- ance of an over-all political party, it invites opposition where none other- wise might develop.” This is the issue which will be drawn in the election in Arizona next year, and it will be a question of na- tional importance. The verdict must rest with public opinion at the polls and with the millions of union mem- bers themselves. Newsweek, September 23, 1957
Full Context: Perspective Registered U.S. Patent Office The Issue In Arizona by Raymond Moley
PHOENIX—In 1958, Arizona will be a major center of political interest, just as
Ohio was in 1950. For the campaign for the re-election of Sen. Barry Goldwater,
like that of Senator Taft seven years ago, brings into sharp focus the issue
between traditional conservatism and the collectivist aims of the political
machines of the big unions. In Taft’s case, there was on trial the Taft-Hartley
Act, which en- deavored to bring the tremendous power of the unions within the
realm of law and order. In Goldwater’s case, the issue is whether the basic
reform in Taft-Hartley, which was to put the unions within the same rules in
political action as corporations, shall be maintained. Since Arizona is a small
state popu- lation-wise, the AFL-CIO Committee on Political Education will no
doubt follow the plan of action by which Oregon, Idaho, and Colorado were taken
in 1956. For the impact of im- mense power coming over state lines from what is
substantially a national political party is difficult to resist. Arizona is in
a process of bewilder- ing growth. Ten years ago, agriculture was the leading
industry. But the state has since had a singular attrac- tion for
manufacturing—both new and small concerns and branches of big ones. Its output
has multiplied four- fold in eleven years. And what is sig- nificant
politically, its manufacturing employment has tripled. THE NEW MACHINE
Goldwater, a businessman, was elected senator in 1952. Because of his
forthrightness and remarkable ca- pacity for self-expression, he has be- come
an outstanding national figure. Most important has been his stand on the rights
and wrongs of the politi- cal arms of the unions. Goldwater has seen that the
dere- lictions in unionism which have been exposed by the McClellan committee
are not the most serious problems in that field. For hoodlumism and rack-
eteering are manifestations of civil disorder for which the remedy is mostly
local police action. The uses of union treasuries for the creature comforts and
private business trans- actions of leaders are serious, but they can be curbed
by existing legal proc- esses and by action within the labor movement itself.
Even the mishan- dling of welfare funds can be cor- rected by the appropriate
arms of the Federal government. But vastly more serious is the de- liberate,
overt, and systematic use of the general funds and employed per- sonnel of
certain unions for the pur- pose of building a gigantic political machine. This
makes possible the ac- tual capture of the government itself in many states and
in the Congress of the United States. If, through the capture of the Democratic
Party over much of the nation, these forces can control legislation, all
efforts to control the abuses revealed in the McClellan hearings must be
frustrated. As Jus- tice Frankfurter said of this use of political power in
speaking for the Court in the UAW case last March: “What is involved here is
the integ- rity of the electoral process.” THE CAPTIVES The root of the great
power exer- cised by the leaders who control those unions is the fact that the
closed or union shop makes captive the treas- uries, the officers, and shop
stewards. This brings into the picture the funda- mental rights of a man or
woman to join or not to join a union. Ari- zona has a right-to-work law, and
Goldwater has been a champion of such legislation generally. No doubt, the
effort will be made in next year’s campaign to depict Goldwater as an enemy of
labor. But the interests of every union member are involved in this great
effort to turn the labor movement into a political party. Goldwater himself has
stated the case this way: “A political party cannot be a bargaining agent in a
free country. A political party cannot dic- tate the terms under which labor
and management will work… When or- ganized labor takes on the appear- ance of
an over-all political party, it invites opposition where none other- wise might
develop.” This is the issue which will be drawn in the election in Arizona next
year, and it will be a question of na- tional importance. The verdict must rest
with public opinion at the polls and with the millions of union mem- bers
themselves. Newsweek, September 23, 1957

==================================================

Title: The Test in Arizona: THE HANDICAP
Date: 1958-03-24
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **Perspective** Registered — U.S. Patent Office **The Test in Arizona** by Raymond Moley PHOENIX—This year Arizona and California will be centers of great national political interest. For in the campaigns there will be two of the most notable senators in Washington, Barry M. Goldwater and William F. Knowland—the former running for reelection, and the latter for governor. Both senators have rare courage, are articulate, and by nature and practice lack that habit of blurring the important and stressing the obvious, so common among political figures. These are the marks of statesmanship. These men are statesmen in their own right. Both, as a consequence, have incurred the bitter opposition of "liberals" in both parties. They are also marked for liquidation by the AFL-CIO Committee on Political Education (COPE) whose objective is to capture the Democratic Party and to establish a labor government in the states and the nation. That, it should be clear to all, including the members of unions themselves, would mean class government, alien to American tradition and inimical to workers—union and nonunion—small-business men, farmers, and others. The device of a closed shop, essential to the political and economic power of the bosses of certain big unions, means irresponsible control over union treasuries and over the paid employees of the unions themselves. This substantially blacks out the political freedom of union members through the use of their dues money in political activities for which they may have no sympathy. It means the "tyranny of the majority." **THE HANDICAP** The mastermind of COPE is Walter Reuther, chief of the CIO and of the UAW—the latter the most politically potent of all unions and, except for the Teamsters, the largest in membership. Already many members of the Senate and House owe their offices to him. Goldwater and Knowland are outstanding exceptions. Both men are pitching their campaigns on the issue of a man's right to choose his own employment. But a serious handicap has emerged. For the chief labor spokesman of the Republican Administration which both men worked to elect, Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell, is attempting to appease the labor bosses by his implacable opposition to the principle of a right to work. Knowland and Goldwater will have to go it alone, with lukewarm sympathy from the Administration in Washington for them personally, and no support at all for their principles. Here in Arizona every natural prospect pleases. Phoenix and Tucson, in particular, are growing amazingly in population and well-being. While Arizona is traditionally Democratic, the growth of the major cities has made the Democratic registration majority meaningless. Hence the campaign will be fought on personalities and issues rather than parties. **FIGUREHEADS** The three major Republican candidates will have the votes of many thousands of conservative Democrats. There will be Goldwater for senator, Congressman John J. Rhodes for the House, and probably either Paul Fannin, a businessman from an old Arizona family, or the very popular John Williams, now mayor of Phoenix, for governor. The Democratic candidate for senator may be Gov. Ernest W. McFarland, although his friends are advising him to run instead for reelection as governor. Attorney General Robert Morrison may run for governor. But these candidates are incidental, for they will be mere figureheads in a more basic contest. The real force will be COPE, operating by remote control from Detroit. Goldwater has great personal popularity. He keeps in close touch with his state, and his energy in Washington has made him a national figure. The people of the state are proud of this, just as the citizens of California are of their native son, Knowland. Goldwater’s vigorous turning of a reluctant McClellan committee from the Beck-Hoffa behavior to the deeper and vastly more important issues of Reuther’s strikes and imperial ambitions suggests what the Arizona campaign will be like. It will be similar in national import to the 1950 campaign in Ohio, when the union bosses threw all they had against the late Senator Taft. There will be hard work and hard hitting before November. *Newsweek*, March 24, 1958
Full Context: **Perspective** Registered — U.S. Patent Office **The Test in Arizona** by
Raymond Moley PHOENIX—This year Arizona and California will be centers of great
national political interest. For in the campaigns there will be two of the most
notable senators in Washington, Barry M. Goldwater and William F. Knowland—the
former running for reelection, and the latter for governor. Both senators have
rare courage, are articulate, and by nature and practice lack that habit of
blurring the important and stressing the obvious, so common among political
figures. These are the marks of statesmanship. These men are statesmen in their
own right. Both, as a consequence, have incurred the bitter opposition of
"liberals" in both parties. They are also marked for liquidation by the AFL-CIO
Committee on Political Education (COPE) whose objective is to capture the
Democratic Party and to establish a labor government in the states and the
nation. That, it should be clear to all, including the members of unions
themselves, would mean class government, alien to American tradition and
inimical to workers—union and nonunion—small-business men, farmers, and others.
The device of a closed shop, essential to the political and economic power of
the bosses of certain big unions, means irresponsible control over union
treasuries and over the paid employees of the unions themselves. This
substantially blacks out the political freedom of union members through the use
of their dues money in political activities for which they may have no
sympathy. It means the "tyranny of the majority." **THE HANDICAP** The
mastermind of COPE is Walter Reuther, chief of the CIO and of the UAW—the
latter the most politically potent of all unions and, except for the Teamsters,
the largest in membership. Already many members of the Senate and House owe
their offices to him. Goldwater and Knowland are outstanding exceptions. Both
men are pitching their campaigns on the issue of a man's right to choose his
own employment. But a serious handicap has emerged. For the chief labor
spokesman of the Republican Administration which both men worked to elect,
Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell, is attempting to appease the labor bosses
by his implacable opposition to the principle of a right to work. Knowland and
Goldwater will have to go it alone, with lukewarm sympathy from the
Administration in Washington for them personally, and no support at all for
their principles. Here in Arizona every natural prospect pleases. Phoenix and
Tucson, in particular, are growing amazingly in population and well-being.
While Arizona is traditionally Democratic, the growth of the major cities has
made the Democratic registration majority meaningless. Hence the campaign will
be fought on personalities and issues rather than parties. **FIGUREHEADS** The
three major Republican candidates will have the votes of many thousands of
conservative Democrats. There will be Goldwater for senator, Congressman John
J. Rhodes for the House, and probably either Paul Fannin, a businessman from an
old Arizona family, or the very popular John Williams, now mayor of Phoenix,
for governor. The Democratic candidate for senator may be Gov. Ernest W.
McFarland, although his friends are advising him to run instead for reelection
as governor. Attorney General Robert Morrison may run for governor. But these
candidates are incidental, for they will be mere figureheads in a more basic
contest. The real force will be COPE, operating by remote control from Detroit.
Goldwater has great personal popularity. He keeps in close touch with his
state, and his energy in Washington has made him a national figure. The people
of the state are proud of this, just as the citizens of California are of their
native son, Knowland. Goldwater’s vigorous turning of a reluctant McClellan
committee from the Beck-Hoffa behavior to the deeper and vastly more important
issues of Reuther’s strikes and imperial ambitions suggests what the Arizona
campaign will be like. It will be similar in national import to the 1950
campaign in Ohio, when the union bosses threw all they had against the late
Senator Taft. There will be hard work and hard hitting before November.
*Newsweek*, March 24, 1958

==================================================

Title: The Battle in Arizona: BUSY COPE
Date: 1958-10-13
Publication: Newsweek
Text: Perspective Registered U.S. Patent Office The Battle in Arizona by Raymond Moley PHOENIX—Probably the most clear-cut campaign in the nation between two philosophies of government is raging in this state. The Republican candidates for the most important offices are not "modern" Re- publicans. They are conservative in the best sense of the word. They are incumbent U.S. Sen. Barry Goldwater, running for a second term; Paul Fannin for governor, and John J. Rhodes, a candidate for another term in the House of Representatives from the First District, which includes Maricopa County. Opposing Goldwater is Governor, and former senator, Ernest McFarland. Opposing Fannin is the present attorney general, Robert Morrison. Seeking the Rhodes seat is Joe Haldiman Jr., a businessman who is ideologically just as conservative as Rhodes. In fact, Haldiman's views on Federal spending, labor, and other economic issues are so pronounced that the Democratic Party omits his name in published lists. This ostracism indicates the extent to which the union political machine controls the Democratic Party in the state—a control which has already become ab- solute in certain other states. Aside from the vigorous activities of the Democratic candidates them- selves, the dominant force with which Goldwater and Fannin must contend is the AFL-CIO Committee on Political Education—COPE. The conserva- tive Haldiman, however, must go it alone among the Democrats. BUSY COPE Many COPE workers are abroad in the state, contacting voters, publish- ing and distributing propaganda, and inspiring word-of-mouth stories. COPE's finances seem abundant, and its interest even extends to electing the sort of members of the State Legislature it prefers. There is no doubt in any informed observer's mind here that the battle waged for Goldwater's seat is regarded by the politically active union bosses through the nation as important to them as was the defeat of the late Senator Taft in Ohio in 1950. Their disaster on that occasion has taught them to operate less conspicuously now. But the determination to eliminate their severest Senatorial critic is just as great. Fannin is inexperienced in politics, but has high standing over the state as a businessman and civic leader. He is taking to the rough and tumble of politics like a veteran. He is talking straight common sense about the very considerable government of an incredibly fast-growing state. He in- dulges in no personalities but is letting the voters judge his qualifications for running state affairs as against those of his opponent, who seems to be just a run-of-the-mill office-seeker, with no real record of handling big administra- tive problems. This is very important in Arizona because industries moving to the state are reasonably concerned about the quality of its government. ANYTHING CAN HAPPEN There is no right-to-work issue here as there is in California. The state has such a law and has affirmed it over and over in tests at the polls. McFarland was a mediocre senator and Senate leader and has managed state affairs always with the idea that he might be restored to the Senate seat from which Goldwater dislodged him. He is an inveterate handshaker and knows the state like his own backyard. He also has the advantage, as do all statewide Democratic candidates, of a two and a half to one Dem- ocratic majority in registration. The pitch of McFarland is that Goldwater has become a statesman with a national reputation. It is a bit sad that such an argument carries weight with some voters. But the fact that it does has compelled Goldwater to enumerate his own services to the state at home and in Washington. And the record is impressive. Unlike California, the state of Arizona has a cohesive, unified Republi- can Party. All its candidates are working for each other. Goldwater, a brilliant campaigner, is carrying on with great energy. At this stage it is difficult to evaluate the prospects at election. But at the moment it seems to most informed people that the races are about even, with Rhodes probably ahead of his opponent. Goldwater and Fannin seem to be gaining. But in the weeks ahead almost anything might happen in a year like this. Newsweek, October 13, 1958
Full Context: Perspective Registered U.S. Patent Office The Battle in Arizona by Raymond
Moley PHOENIX—Probably the most clear-cut campaign in the nation between two
philosophies of government is raging in this state. The Republican candidates
for the most important offices are not "modern" Re- publicans. They are
conservative in the best sense of the word. They are incumbent U.S. Sen. Barry
Goldwater, running for a second term; Paul Fannin for governor, and John J.
Rhodes, a candidate for another term in the House of Representatives from the
First District, which includes Maricopa County. Opposing Goldwater is Governor,
and former senator, Ernest McFarland. Opposing Fannin is the present attorney
general, Robert Morrison. Seeking the Rhodes seat is Joe Haldiman Jr., a
businessman who is ideologically just as conservative as Rhodes. In fact,
Haldiman's views on Federal spending, labor, and other economic issues are so
pronounced that the Democratic Party omits his name in published lists. This
ostracism indicates the extent to which the union political machine controls
the Democratic Party in the state—a control which has already become ab- solute
in certain other states. Aside from the vigorous activities of the Democratic
candidates them- selves, the dominant force with which Goldwater and Fannin
must contend is the AFL-CIO Committee on Political Education—COPE. The
conserva- tive Haldiman, however, must go it alone among the Democrats. BUSY
COPE Many COPE workers are abroad in the state, contacting voters, publish- ing
and distributing propaganda, and inspiring word-of-mouth stories. COPE's
finances seem abundant, and its interest even extends to electing the sort of
members of the State Legislature it prefers. There is no doubt in any informed
observer's mind here that the battle waged for Goldwater's seat is regarded by
the politically active union bosses through the nation as important to them as
was the defeat of the late Senator Taft in Ohio in 1950. Their disaster on that
occasion has taught them to operate less conspicuously now. But the
determination to eliminate their severest Senatorial critic is just as great.
Fannin is inexperienced in politics, but has high standing over the state as a
businessman and civic leader. He is taking to the rough and tumble of politics
like a veteran. He is talking straight common sense about the very considerable
government of an incredibly fast-growing state. He in- dulges in no
personalities but is letting the voters judge his qualifications for running
state affairs as against those of his opponent, who seems to be just a
run-of-the-mill office-seeker, with no real record of handling big administra-
tive problems. This is very important in Arizona because industries moving to
the state are reasonably concerned about the quality of its government.
ANYTHING CAN HAPPEN There is no right-to-work issue here as there is in
California. The state has such a law and has affirmed it over and over in tests
at the polls. McFarland was a mediocre senator and Senate leader and has
managed state affairs always with the idea that he might be restored to the
Senate seat from which Goldwater dislodged him. He is an inveterate handshaker
and knows the state like his own backyard. He also has the advantage, as do all
statewide Democratic candidates, of a two and a half to one Dem- ocratic
majority in registration. The pitch of McFarland is that Goldwater has become a
statesman with a national reputation. It is a bit sad that such an argument
carries weight with some voters. But the fact that it does has compelled
Goldwater to enumerate his own services to the state at home and in Washington.
And the record is impressive. Unlike California, the state of Arizona has a
cohesive, unified Republi- can Party. All its candidates are working for each
other. Goldwater, a brilliant campaigner, is carrying on with great energy. At
this stage it is difficult to evaluate the prospects at election. But at the
moment it seems to most informed people that the races are about even, with
Rhodes probably ahead of his opponent. Goldwater and Fannin seem to be gaining.
But in the weeks ahead almost anything might happen in a year like this.
Newsweek, October 13, 1958

==================================================

Title: Conservatives Top: Vice Presidency Poll
Date: 1960-04-15
Publication: LAT
Text: RAYMOND MOLEY: Conservatives Top Vice Presidency Poll The poll of Republican county chairmen by Hu- man Events, an interest- ing and influential Wash- ington newsletter, has brought out a point that the party convention and its candidate for President should consider if a GOP victory is to be won this year. The poll limited its list of choices for Vice Presi- dent to Goldwater, Hal- leck, Lodge, Hatfield, Kea- ting, Mitchell, Scott, and Seaton. Write-ins were possible. Rockefeller was not included in the list, but he received 58 write- in choices among the 1,- 003 replies. Goldwater led with 257; Lodge was next with 251; Halleck had 149. If these choices are grouped, we might regard the votes for Goldwater, Halleck, Keating, and the write-ins for Morton as preferences for a conserv- ative ticket. The com- bined vote of these was three times that of the combined "liberals"— Rockefeller, Hatfield, Mitchell, and Scott. It is impossible to classify Sea- ton because there is little in the record to indicate a leaning one way or an- other. While there are some who regard Lodge as a "liberal" because he sup- ported Eisenhower against Taft in 1952 and has been engaged in international affairs since 1953, there is nothing in the record to prove the point. No doubt, many of his votes were motivated by the belief that his experience in in- ternational affairs would make him handy for a President to have around. It is fair, therefore, to conclude that almost three times as many of these party workers prefer a conservative candidate for Vice President as those who voted for a "liberal." To strengthen the con- clusion that these Repub- licans who want to win this election prefer a con- servative ticket with a specific declaration of con- servative party principles, there is the very striking vote for Goldwater. For the Arizona senator has been the most articulate spokesman in the Senate for conservative principles and in a very short time has become an outstand- ing national figure. Now let us consider these figures in the light of what so many commen- tators (mostly Democrats) and others are telling us. They are saying substan- tially that the Republican candidate and his party platform must appease the so-called "Independents" to win and that these "in- dependents," who, inci- dentally, have not been voting except in the Ei- senhower elections, are "liberal." The nonvoters for the most part are not inde- pendent at all. They are either neglectful or indif- ferent. And when, as in the Eisenhower elections, a few million have come out, they have not hesitat- ed to vote for a Republi- can who, despite some compromises, has stood for less spending, less bu- reaucracy, and for keep- ing government out of in- dividual enterprise. To trim the sails of the Republican candidate and his platform to please these so-called "independ- ents" would be on the as- sumption that the regular party members are "in the bag" and would have to support the ticket. These regulars would do that for the sake of party and pa- tronage. They would give their minds and their voices to any party candi- date. But not their hearts. And anyone who knows politics must realize that it is the extra enthusiasm, zeal, and activity that come when party work- ers are happy about their candidate that brings out the margin of lazy or in- different voters necessary to win an election. To these workers must be added the tens of thou- sands of businessmen who are for the first time pledged to get out the conservative vote at the local level. There are also the contributors to the party funds. To chill these by a swing to the left would be equally disas- trous. This is something that Vice President Nixon must consider when he hears from those who tell him fairy tales about win- ning "independents" and Democrats by trying to outpromise the Democrat- ic candidate, whoever he may be. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: RAYMOND MOLEY: Conservatives Top Vice Presidency Poll The poll of Republican
county chairmen by Hu- man Events, an interest- ing and influential Wash-
ington newsletter, has brought out a point that the party convention and its
candidate for President should consider if a GOP victory is to be won this
year. The poll limited its list of choices for Vice Presi- dent to Goldwater,
Hal- leck, Lodge, Hatfield, Kea- ting, Mitchell, Scott, and Seaton. Write-ins
were possible. Rockefeller was not included in the list, but he received 58
write- in choices among the 1,- 003 replies. Goldwater led with 257; Lodge was
next with 251; Halleck had 149. If these choices are grouped, we might regard
the votes for Goldwater, Halleck, Keating, and the write-ins for Morton as
preferences for a conserv- ative ticket. The com- bined vote of these was three
times that of the combined "liberals"— Rockefeller, Hatfield, Mitchell, and
Scott. It is impossible to classify Sea- ton because there is little in the
record to indicate a leaning one way or an- other. While there are some who
regard Lodge as a "liberal" because he sup- ported Eisenhower against Taft in
1952 and has been engaged in international affairs since 1953, there is nothing
in the record to prove the point. No doubt, many of his votes were motivated by
the belief that his experience in in- ternational affairs would make him handy
for a President to have around. It is fair, therefore, to conclude that almost
three times as many of these party workers prefer a conservative candidate for
Vice President as those who voted for a "liberal." To strengthen the con-
clusion that these Repub- licans who want to win this election prefer a con-
servative ticket with a specific declaration of con- servative party
principles, there is the very striking vote for Goldwater. For the Arizona
senator has been the most articulate spokesman in the Senate for conservative
principles and in a very short time has become an outstand- ing national
figure. Now let us consider these figures in the light of what so many commen-
tators (mostly Democrats) and others are telling us. They are saying substan-
tially that the Republican candidate and his party platform must appease the
so-called "Independents" to win and that these "in- dependents," who, inci-
dentally, have not been voting except in the Ei- senhower elections, are
"liberal." The nonvoters for the most part are not inde- pendent at all. They
are either neglectful or indif- ferent. And when, as in the Eisenhower
elections, a few million have come out, they have not hesitat- ed to vote for a
Republi- can who, despite some compromises, has stood for less spending, less
bu- reaucracy, and for keep- ing government out of in- dividual enterprise. To
trim the sails of the Republican candidate and his platform to please these
so-called "independ- ents" would be on the as- sumption that the regular party
members are "in the bag" and would have to support the ticket. These regulars
would do that for the sake of party and pa- tronage. They would give their
minds and their voices to any party candi- date. But not their hearts. And
anyone who knows politics must realize that it is the extra enthusiasm, zeal,
and activity that come when party work- ers are happy about their candidate
that brings out the margin of lazy or in- different voters necessary to win an
election. To these workers must be added the tens of thou- sands of businessmen
who are for the first time pledged to get out the conservative vote at the
local level. There are also the contributors to the party funds. To chill these
by a swing to the left would be equally disas- trous. This is something that
Vice President Nixon must consider when he hears from those who tell him fairy
tales about win- ning "independents" and Democrats by trying to outpromise the
Democrat- ic candidate, whoever he may be. Reproduced with permission of the
copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: Sen. Goldwater Has Contributed an Indispensable Service to GOP
Date: 1960-08-05
Publication: LAT
Text: Sen. Goldwater Has Contributed an Indispensable Service to GOP The Republican Party emerged from its Chicago convention in much better shape, with a firmer belief in victory in November, with a finer fighting spirit, and greater unity than it has had in 32 years. Several individuals should be singled out as having contributed to that achievement. There was the appeal to the moral code by Herbert Hoover, the party's venerable dean -a factor in summoning the emotional instincts of voters, likely to be forgot- ten in the mad matching of materialistic promises so common in recent years. President Eisenhower rose to heights in giving the party an account of his record on which the party may base its appeal for a vote of confidence. The adroitness of candi- date Nixon has been famil- iar to those who have known him best. But he underlined that quality in this instance for all to see. ★ Charles Percy labored indefatigably in shaping the platform, and while the document is too long and will not be noticed from here on, it was one which created unity while it kept to certain funda- mentals. Gov. Rockefeller rose far above the apparent petu- lance which he revealed only a month ago. But the service of Sen. Barry Goldwater was unique and supplied some- thing which will be in- dispensable to Republican success. In four elections -in 1936, 1940, 1944 and 1948 the plain statistics show that Republican vic- tory was foredoomed by the apathy of millions who might have been sum- BY RAYMOND MOLEY moned by a more forth- right expression of opin- ion by the candidates and the platforms. Even in 1952, on the eve of a great victory, the con- vention in Chicago left raw wounds which only the Taft-Eisenhower meet- ing in mid-September suc- ceeded in healing. This time, the way has been cleared for a big vote by the participation of Gold- water in the convention. He first demonstrated to the convention and to the country that there is a very large and vital ele- ment in the Republican Party which believes in progress, but through those principles which have attended progress in the past. ★ This was the meaning of his temporary candidacy and the demonstrations which attended it. Then there was his withdrawal and his pledge to support Nixon. Finally, and most important, there was an appeal to his friends: "We must remember that Republicans have not been losing elections be- cause of more Democratic votes now get this we have been losing elec- tions because conserva- tives too often fail to vote. "Why is this? And you conservatives think this over-we don't gain any- thing when you get mad at a candidate because you don't agree with his philos- ophy. Forget it! "This country is too im- portant for anyone's feel- ings. This country in its majesty is too great for any man, be he conserva- tive or liberal, to stay home and not work just because he doesn't agree . Let's get to work." Those words should be fully comprehended by ev- ery irreconcilable. In my travels over the country I have heard from many conservatives such comments as this: "If Nix- on doesn't stop associating with Mitchell, Flemming and Rogers, I am done with him," and "Nixon is appeasing the liberals. There is nothing left for me to support," and "I'm mad because Eisenhower hasn't done this or that. Therefore I don't like Nix- on." This sort of thing repre- sents an all-or-nothing at- titude. But if we are to have two political parties, both must have elements at variance with one an- other. The only way to satisfy everyone is to have as many parties as France had before De Gaulle. And a multi-party system leads to a one-party system, and a one-party system leads to a one-man system. ★ The firm defense of our individual liberty is in a two-party system. This has been proved by all his- tory. Conservatives, by in- sisting that their candidate agree with them complete- ly, are merely contribut- ing to the end which all conservatives should dread the most centralized government, and, ulti- mately, dictatorship and tyranny. This is what Goldwater will preach from now to the end of his public serv- ice. His mission is one of major proportions. And he has left no doubt about his willingness and ability to perform that service. Sometimes it is better to be right than President. Here is an example. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Sen. Goldwater Has Contributed an Indispensable Service to GOP The Republican
Party emerged from its Chicago convention in much better shape, with a firmer
belief in victory in November, with a finer fighting spirit, and greater unity
than it has had in 32 years. Several individuals should be singled out as
having contributed to that achievement. There was the appeal to the moral code
by Herbert Hoover, the party's venerable dean -a factor in summoning the
emotional instincts of voters, likely to be forgot- ten in the mad matching of
materialistic promises so common in recent years. President Eisenhower rose to
heights in giving the party an account of his record on which the party may
base its appeal for a vote of confidence. The adroitness of candi- date Nixon
has been famil- iar to those who have known him best. But he underlined that
quality in this instance for all to see. ★ Charles Percy labored indefatigably
in shaping the platform, and while the document is too long and will not be
noticed from here on, it was one which created unity while it kept to certain
funda- mentals. Gov. Rockefeller rose far above the apparent petu- lance which
he revealed only a month ago. But the service of Sen. Barry Goldwater was
unique and supplied some- thing which will be in- dispensable to Republican
success. In four elections -in 1936, 1940, 1944 and 1948 the plain statistics
show that Republican vic- tory was foredoomed by the apathy of millions who
might have been sum- BY RAYMOND MOLEY moned by a more forth- right expression
of opin- ion by the candidates and the platforms. Even in 1952, on the eve of a
great victory, the con- vention in Chicago left raw wounds which only the
Taft-Eisenhower meet- ing in mid-September suc- ceeded in healing. This time,
the way has been cleared for a big vote by the participation of Gold- water in
the convention. He first demonstrated to the convention and to the country that
there is a very large and vital ele- ment in the Republican Party which
believes in progress, but through those principles which have attended progress
in the past. ★ This was the meaning of his temporary candidacy and the
demonstrations which attended it. Then there was his withdrawal and his pledge
to support Nixon. Finally, and most important, there was an appeal to his
friends: "We must remember that Republicans have not been losing elections be-
cause of more Democratic votes now get this we have been losing elec- tions
because conserva- tives too often fail to vote. "Why is this? And you
conservatives think this over-we don't gain any- thing when you get mad at a
candidate because you don't agree with his philos- ophy. Forget it! "This
country is too im- portant for anyone's feel- ings. This country in its majesty
is too great for any man, be he conserva- tive or liberal, to stay home and not
work just because he doesn't agree . Let's get to work." Those words should be
fully comprehended by ev- ery irreconcilable. In my travels over the country I
have heard from many conservatives such comments as this: "If Nix- on doesn't
stop associating with Mitchell, Flemming and Rogers, I am done with him," and
"Nixon is appeasing the liberals. There is nothing left for me to support," and
"I'm mad because Eisenhower hasn't done this or that. Therefore I don't like
Nix- on." This sort of thing repre- sents an all-or-nothing at- titude. But if
we are to have two political parties, both must have elements at variance with
one an- other. The only way to satisfy everyone is to have as many parties as
France had before De Gaulle. And a multi-party system leads to a one-party
system, and a one-party system leads to a one-man system. ★ The firm defense of
our individual liberty is in a two-party system. This has been proved by all
his- tory. Conservatives, by in- sisting that their candidate agree with them
complete- ly, are merely contribut- ing to the end which all conservatives
should dread the most centralized government, and, ulti- mately, dictatorship
and tyranny. This is what Goldwater will preach from now to the end of his
public serv- ice. His mission is one of major proportions. And he has left no
doubt about his willingness and ability to perform that service. Sometimes it
is better to be right than President. Here is an example. Reproduced with
permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without
permission.

==================================================

Title: A Party United: GOLDWATER'S REMINDER
Date: 1960-08-15
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **A Party United** by Raymond Moley THE Republican convention ended in a peace which truly passes all understanding. No one could have expected such harmony. There are few precedents in history. Even in 1860 Governor Seward, who had the prize snatched from him despite his big advantage, left Chicago believing that his party had nominated an uncouth prairie lawyer. For two months after the convention in 1952, gloom and resentment prevailed among Taft supporters. Sometimes suspicion of foul play mars unity; at other times, a knowledge of smelly deals. There were no deals this time, only reasonable accommodations. From the time when the Democrats selected Johnson for Vice President, Lodge became almost a certainty. Nixon knew that the impairment of his chances in Texas and the South meant urgent efforts to gain strength in the Northeast. Deepening international tensions called for a Vice President who could help cope with them, and the need for harmony in New York demanded an entente with Rockefeller. In that agreement, neither gave away anything of substance. In the test, Nixon's sagacity proved itself. **GOLDWATER'S REMINDER** After President Eisenhower's remarkable reading of his record—in the finest speech of his career—no Republican need hesitate to stand on that record. There was also the appeal to moral values by the venerable dean of the party, Herbert Hoover. Governor Rockefeller came girt in the loincloth of an irreconcilable John the Baptist, and left in the bright livery of regularity. This year Adlai Stevenson's figure of the two-headed elephant will fade. Also notable was Charles Percy's unremitting effort to create a platform. It is a meaningful statement, although it is too long and will be soon forgotten. There is vastly greater appreciation now of Sen. Barry Goldwater's stature as a leader and exponent of a clear public philosophy. This is exceedingly important because a very large element in the Republican Party believes as he does, and without its active and enthusiastic support the party could not win. Goldwater's principles call for growth and progress without excesses and without the impairment of local and state responsibility. Goldwater's unquestioned leadership of conservative Republicans enabled him to remind his party and all of us of the facts of life in a two-party nation. With such a system—and it is indispensable to our liberty in so great and diversified a country—there can be no precise agreement within a party in all details. No candidate can completely satisfy everyone, if he is candid enough and courageous enough to speak his mind. Tolerance of the views of others, accommodation in details is inevitable. To sulk and refrain from participation is to lose all while clinging to some. **FORMIDABLE TEAM** A year ago on this page, under the caption "All or Nothing," I stressed that lesson to conservatives. Again, six weeks ago, I said the same under the title "The Irreconcilables." On both occasions, the first letter I received was a note of agreement from Goldwater. The views he so pointedly expressed to conservatives in his final speech at the convention have always been his firm convictions. It has repeatedly been said that the Arizona senator is emerging as the successor and heir of the late Senator Taft. There is much to commend that view. Both have been strong constitutionalists; both believers in progress through a free economy. Taft excelled in legal debate. Goldwater is more articulate, more precise, with more emotional appeal. He also has a powerful appeal to young men and women, among whom there is a growing conservative tide, especially among college students. In the campaign now beginning, Goldwater will be a major factor. Since the Democrats have decided to make a major issue of defense, he will speak on that with authority. Thus, the Republican ticket has at its service a formidable team. There are the two principals, Nixon and Lodge, veterans of many a campaign, Goldwater, and the attractive and likable Rockefeller. And, very important, President Eisenhower, determined with deep sincerity that his Administration shall win a vote of confidence in November. Newsweek, August 15, 1960
Full Context: **A Party United** by Raymond Moley THE Republican convention ended in a peace
which truly passes all understanding. No one could have expected such harmony.
There are few precedents in history. Even in 1860 Governor Seward, who had the
prize snatched from him despite his big advantage, left Chicago believing that
his party had nominated an uncouth prairie lawyer. For two months after the
convention in 1952, gloom and resentment prevailed among Taft supporters.
Sometimes suspicion of foul play mars unity; at other times, a knowledge of
smelly deals. There were no deals this time, only reasonable accommodations.
From the time when the Democrats selected Johnson for Vice President, Lodge
became almost a certainty. Nixon knew that the impairment of his chances in
Texas and the South meant urgent efforts to gain strength in the Northeast.
Deepening international tensions called for a Vice President who could help
cope with them, and the need for harmony in New York demanded an entente with
Rockefeller. In that agreement, neither gave away anything of substance. In the
test, Nixon's sagacity proved itself. **GOLDWATER'S REMINDER** After President
Eisenhower's remarkable reading of his record—in the finest speech of his
career—no Republican need hesitate to stand on that record. There was also the
appeal to moral values by the venerable dean of the party, Herbert Hoover.
Governor Rockefeller came girt in the loincloth of an irreconcilable John the
Baptist, and left in the bright livery of regularity. This year Adlai
Stevenson's figure of the two-headed elephant will fade. Also notable was
Charles Percy's unremitting effort to create a platform. It is a meaningful
statement, although it is too long and will be soon forgotten. There is vastly
greater appreciation now of Sen. Barry Goldwater's stature as a leader and
exponent of a clear public philosophy. This is exceedingly important because a
very large element in the Republican Party believes as he does, and without its
active and enthusiastic support the party could not win. Goldwater's principles
call for growth and progress without excesses and without the impairment of
local and state responsibility. Goldwater's unquestioned leadership of
conservative Republicans enabled him to remind his party and all of us of the
facts of life in a two-party nation. With such a system—and it is indispensable
to our liberty in so great and diversified a country—there can be no precise
agreement within a party in all details. No candidate can completely satisfy
everyone, if he is candid enough and courageous enough to speak his mind.
Tolerance of the views of others, accommodation in details is inevitable. To
sulk and refrain from participation is to lose all while clinging to some.
**FORMIDABLE TEAM** A year ago on this page, under the caption "All or
Nothing," I stressed that lesson to conservatives. Again, six weeks ago, I said
the same under the title "The Irreconcilables." On both occasions, the first
letter I received was a note of agreement from Goldwater. The views he so
pointedly expressed to conservatives in his final speech at the convention have
always been his firm convictions. It has repeatedly been said that the Arizona
senator is emerging as the successor and heir of the late Senator Taft. There
is much to commend that view. Both have been strong constitutionalists; both
believers in progress through a free economy. Taft excelled in legal debate.
Goldwater is more articulate, more precise, with more emotional appeal. He also
has a powerful appeal to young men and women, among whom there is a growing
conservative tide, especially among college students. In the campaign now
beginning, Goldwater will be a major factor. Since the Democrats have decided
to make a major issue of defense, he will speak on that with authority. Thus,
the Republican ticket has at its service a formidable team. There are the two
principals, Nixon and Lodge, veterans of many a campaign, Goldwater, and the
attractive and likable Rockefeller. And, very important, President Eisenhower,
determined with deep sincerity that his Administration shall win a vote of
confidence in November. Newsweek, August 15, 1960

==================================================

Title: MUST HOLD PARTY TOGETHER: NIXON CAN RETAIN LEADERSHIP OF REPUBLICANS IF HE CHOOSES
Date: 1960-12-09
Publication: LAT
Text: "Where MacGregor sits is the head of the table." is an old maxim which has pertinence in the present flurry between the Pres- ident, Gov. Rockefeller and Sen, Goldwater. Under our American system of party responsi- bility, that individual emerges as the recognized leader who represents the degree of intelligence, ca- pacity to weld together conflicting elements, a n d popular attractiveness to be accepted by those who, over the nation, hold of- ficial party offices. These are not just the members of Congress, or the state chairmen, or the big contributors, or those editors and others who wield public opinion. Nor is the defeated Presidential candidate, of- ten called the "titular" leader, always the head of the party. More often in our system there is no real leader. Leadership is carned, not conferred by anyone. Among the many fea- tures which distinguish the British system of gov- ernment from ours is the status of party leadership. The parliamentary leader is elected by the members of the party in the House of Commons. Leadership outside the parliamentary party dif- fers somewhat in the two major parties. In the Con- servative Party there is, in addition to the parliamen- tary party, a National Un- ion. This has a chairman whose power and respon- sibility are mostly nomi- nal. BY RAYMOND MOLEY The Labor Party, like the Conservative, has a leader of its parliamentary party elected by its m.p.s.; But Labor outside Parlia- ment has at its head a Na- tional Executive Commit- tee. For many reasons, in Britain the dominating in- fluence in each party is the parliamentary group with its leader. This is be- cause the eves of the na- tion are fixed upon what is going on in Parliament. ★ Without accepting the thesis that the British have a better system of government than ours, there is no question but that in this practice their parties have the great ad- vantage over ours. Per- haps that is why most of the countries that have as- sumed nationhood since 1776 have followed the British rather than the American system. Only in Latin America has our ex- ample been followed, and there the Presidents have generally become dicta- tors. Because we are a very large country and because our republic is a confed- cration of states, there is always more or less dis- pute about who is the lead- er of the party which does not have the Presidency. Hoover, Landon, Willkie and Dewey, after their de- feats for the Presidency, were never generally re- garded as party leaders. The struggle for the Presi- dential nomination pro- duces a sort of pro tem leader. If he is elected President, he can lead. If defeated, he usually does not. But in the case of Vice President Nixon we have an unusual situation. Not only did he receive more votes than any Republi- can ever received before with the exception of Ei- senhower in 1956, but, if the charges of Republicans are true, he should now be the President-elect. He has shown a greater capacity than any Repub- lican in our time to bring harmony to his party. But, most important, the reluc- tance of Rockefeller and Goldwater to accept his leadership since the elec- tion and their own ambi- tions for the future make Nixon the natural choice of most members of the party who are not so con- servative as Goldwater and not so radical as Rockefeller. ★ Rockefeller asks for "collective" leadership. Rather, he should recog- nize something more ap- propriately called "cohe- sive" leadership. That means that the force of two opposing ex- tremities creates in be- tween a hard majority which is sick of conten- tions and which chooses a spokesman who stands somewhere between. If Nixon chooses, and if he will put his energies into the job, he will pre- vail and be, so far as the American system permits, the foremost Republican in the nation and the party's authentic leader.
Full Context: "Where MacGregor sits is the head of the table." is an old maxim which has
pertinence in the present flurry between the Pres- ident, Gov. Rockefeller and
Sen, Goldwater. Under our American system of party responsi- bility, that
individual emerges as the recognized leader who represents the degree of
intelligence, ca- pacity to weld together conflicting elements, a n d popular
attractiveness to be accepted by those who, over the nation, hold of- ficial
party offices. These are not just the members of Congress, or the state
chairmen, or the big contributors, or those editors and others who wield public
opinion. Nor is the defeated Presidential candidate, of- ten called the
"titular" leader, always the head of the party. More often in our system there
is no real leader. Leadership is carned, not conferred by anyone. Among the
many fea- tures which distinguish the British system of gov- ernment from ours
is the status of party leadership. The parliamentary leader is elected by the
members of the party in the House of Commons. Leadership outside the
parliamentary party dif- fers somewhat in the two major parties. In the Con-
servative Party there is, in addition to the parliamen- tary party, a National
Un- ion. This has a chairman whose power and respon- sibility are mostly nomi-
nal. BY RAYMOND MOLEY The Labor Party, like the Conservative, has a leader of
its parliamentary party elected by its m.p.s.; But Labor outside Parlia- ment
has at its head a Na- tional Executive Commit- tee. For many reasons, in
Britain the dominating in- fluence in each party is the parliamentary group
with its leader. This is be- cause the eves of the na- tion are fixed upon what
is going on in Parliament. ★ Without accepting the thesis that the British have
a better system of government than ours, there is no question but that in this
practice their parties have the great ad- vantage over ours. Per- haps that is
why most of the countries that have as- sumed nationhood since 1776 have
followed the British rather than the American system. Only in Latin America has
our ex- ample been followed, and there the Presidents have generally become
dicta- tors. Because we are a very large country and because our republic is a
confed- cration of states, there is always more or less dis- pute about who is
the lead- er of the party which does not have the Presidency. Hoover, Landon,
Willkie and Dewey, after their de- feats for the Presidency, were never
generally re- garded as party leaders. The struggle for the Presi- dential
nomination pro- duces a sort of pro tem leader. If he is elected President, he
can lead. If defeated, he usually does not. But in the case of Vice President
Nixon we have an unusual situation. Not only did he receive more votes than any
Republi- can ever received before with the exception of Ei- senhower in 1956,
but, if the charges of Republicans are true, he should now be the
President-elect. He has shown a greater capacity than any Repub- lican in our
time to bring harmony to his party. But, most important, the reluc- tance of
Rockefeller and Goldwater to accept his leadership since the elec- tion and
their own ambi- tions for the future make Nixon the natural choice of most
members of the party who are not so con- servative as Goldwater and not so
radical as Rockefeller. ★ Rockefeller asks for "collective" leadership. Rather,
he should recog- nize something more ap- propriately called "cohe- sive"
leadership. That means that the force of two opposing ex- tremities creates in
be- tween a hard majority which is sick of conten- tions and which chooses a
spokesman who stands somewhere between. If Nixon chooses, and if he will put
his energies into the job, he will pre- vail and be, so far as the American
system permits, the foremost Republican in the nation and the party's authentic
leader.

==================================================

Title: Party Unity and Strength: AUXILIARY GROUPS
Date: 1962-07-30
Publication: Newsweek
Text: PERSPECTIVE Party Unity and Strength by Raymond Moley Two weeks ago I commented on the new National Republican Citi- zens Committee and said that Senator Goldwater's objections were based upon reconcilable points of difference. I then received a friendly letter from the senator restating his dis- agreement. That has been supple- mented with a long telephone conversation. With the senator's per- mission, I shall discuss his objections. I am still convinced that such ob- jections as he has can be reconciled through mutual understanding and full communication between the senator and the group created under the auspices of Dwight Eisenhower. Goldwater's criticism rests upon three points. One is that the individ- uals who have been publicized as sponsors of the Citizens Committee are the same as or similar to the "modern" Republicans who were around Eisenhower in the first years of his Administration and who gave a liberal or me-too tinge to the party. Another is that the official Republican organizations, national and local, are sufficient and that the people who formed the committee should work exclusively in the party itself. Finally, that the Citizens Committee will im- poverish the party by drawing avail- able contributions to itself. These considerations are too weighty to be disposed of in one article. The third one, party finances, I shall reserve until later. AUXILIARY GROUPS I dismiss as utterly unfair the claim of some of the more ardent Gold- water partisans that the Gettysburg plan is really a conspiracy to block a Goldwater nomination in 1964. The senator himself does not say this. And common sense and history tell us that discussion of 1964 cannot be useful until after 1962. The stated purpose of the Citizens Committee is to mobilize those mil- lions of individuals who are unhappy with the present liberal Democratic majority in Congress and with the Kennedy Administration, but who are not presently identified with the Re- publican Party. These, under the di- rection of a small national organization, would be induced to form Republican auxiliary groups in many large urban centers, similar to the Republican As- sociates in Los Angeles and like agen- cies in other cities and states. Such auxiliaries can bring help to the sup- port of candidates officially selected under the law by regular Republican organizations. They can provide vol- unteer workers for precinct activity, training facilities, research, and other vital party services. I have called this process "operation beef-up." HELP WANTED Someone had to start this process, and under the stimulus of the former President and Vice President a num- ber of public-spirited people formed the initial committee. These sponsors will be augmented with many others representing many points of view. I have assured myself that this is the real purpose of the Citizens Com- mittee after talking with the sponsors, with National Chairman William E. Miller, Republican Congressional Chairman Bob Wilson, and others. Mi- nority Leaders Dirksen and Halleck have endorsed the movement. There is need for such groups as the Los Angeles Republican Associ- ates in many urban areas. Senator Goldwater says that most enthusiasti- cally in his letter. The regular Democratic Party with- out the help of such auxiliaries as the AFL-CIO's COPE, the ADA, and oth- ers would not now be in power in Congress and the White House. Such help for the Democrats was recog- nized and action was taken by Presi- dent Roosevelt 27 years ago. Senator Goldwater must know from his travels over the country that in many states and innumerable lo- calities Republican organizations are weak, understaffed, and underfi- nanced. In some places they are im- potent and reconciled, almost happy in the face of perennial defeat. This is despite a potential which, if enlisted in auxiliaries, would provide the mar- gin of victory. Countless thousands would help, but do not and in some cases cannot. These potential sup- porters of Republican candidates need some stimulus to bridge the gap be- tween them and the Republican Party. That is the need the National Republican Citizens Committee is de- signed to meet. □ Newsweek, July 30, 1962
Full Context: PERSPECTIVE Party Unity and Strength by Raymond Moley Two weeks ago I commented
on the new National Republican Citi- zens Committee and said that Senator
Goldwater's objections were based upon reconcilable points of difference. I
then received a friendly letter from the senator restating his dis- agreement.
That has been supple- mented with a long telephone conversation. With the
senator's per- mission, I shall discuss his objections. I am still convinced
that such ob- jections as he has can be reconciled through mutual understanding
and full communication between the senator and the group created under the
auspices of Dwight Eisenhower. Goldwater's criticism rests upon three points.
One is that the individ- uals who have been publicized as sponsors of the
Citizens Committee are the same as or similar to the "modern" Republicans who
were around Eisenhower in the first years of his Administration and who gave a
liberal or me-too tinge to the party. Another is that the official Republican
organizations, national and local, are sufficient and that the people who
formed the committee should work exclusively in the party itself. Finally, that
the Citizens Committee will im- poverish the party by drawing avail- able
contributions to itself. These considerations are too weighty to be disposed of
in one article. The third one, party finances, I shall reserve until later.
AUXILIARY GROUPS I dismiss as utterly unfair the claim of some of the more
ardent Gold- water partisans that the Gettysburg plan is really a conspiracy to
block a Goldwater nomination in 1964. The senator himself does not say this.
And common sense and history tell us that discussion of 1964 cannot be useful
until after 1962. The stated purpose of the Citizens Committee is to mobilize
those mil- lions of individuals who are unhappy with the present liberal
Democratic majority in Congress and with the Kennedy Administration, but who
are not presently identified with the Re- publican Party. These, under the di-
rection of a small national organization, would be induced to form Republican
auxiliary groups in many large urban centers, similar to the Republican As-
sociates in Los Angeles and like agen- cies in other cities and states. Such
auxiliaries can bring help to the sup- port of candidates officially selected
under the law by regular Republican organizations. They can provide vol- unteer
workers for precinct activity, training facilities, research, and other vital
party services. I have called this process "operation beef-up." HELP WANTED
Someone had to start this process, and under the stimulus of the former
President and Vice President a num- ber of public-spirited people formed the
initial committee. These sponsors will be augmented with many others
representing many points of view. I have assured myself that this is the real
purpose of the Citizens Com- mittee after talking with the sponsors, with
National Chairman William E. Miller, Republican Congressional Chairman Bob
Wilson, and others. Mi- nority Leaders Dirksen and Halleck have endorsed the
movement. There is need for such groups as the Los Angeles Republican Associ-
ates in many urban areas. Senator Goldwater says that most enthusiasti- cally
in his letter. The regular Democratic Party with- out the help of such
auxiliaries as the AFL-CIO's COPE, the ADA, and oth- ers would not now be in
power in Congress and the White House. Such help for the Democrats was recog-
nized and action was taken by Presi- dent Roosevelt 27 years ago. Senator
Goldwater must know from his travels over the country that in many states and
innumerable lo- calities Republican organizations are weak, understaffed, and
underfi- nanced. In some places they are im- potent and reconciled, almost
happy in the face of perennial defeat. This is despite a potential which, if
enlisted in auxiliaries, would provide the mar- gin of victory. Countless
thousands would help, but do not and in some cases cannot. These potential sup-
porters of Republican candidates need some stimulus to bridge the gap be- tween
them and the Republican Party. That is the need the National Republican
Citizens Committee is de- signed to meet. □ Newsweek, July 30, 1962

==================================================

Title: Kennedy May Be Trying to Bypass Congress on Vital Policy Issues
Date: 1963-01-29
Publication: LAT
Text: Kennedy May Be Trying to Bypass Congress on Vital Policy Issues BY RAYMOND MOLEY President Kennedy's aversion to advice or criticism is now well known. He has become accustomed to making decisions on his own without the benefit of the counsel of the best informed and obviously interested sources. The amateurs' invasion of Cuba was a case in point. Recently, with his Secretary of Defense, Robert McNamara, Mr. Kennedy has shown this trait in reaching other grave decisions. The offer of Polaris to Great Britain and France, the cancellation of the Skybolt missile program, the elimination of the B-70 manned bomber program, and the announcement of the "phase theory" and the "no-cities theory" underline a renewal of a policy by the executive branch to push its powers to the limit without even the pretense of consultation with congressional leaders. * The history of "executive agreements" is a long and sometimes bitter story. President Kennedy's and Secretary McNamara's arbitrary actions of the past few weeks are the opening lines of another chapter. For who doubts that the Congress feels strongly that foreign policy, atomic energy, and defense decisions of such moment should have been made with its full cognizance? Such brandishing of the executive power recalls the stroke of Franklin D. Roosevelt, acting on his own in 1940, when he transferred 50 destroyers to Britain and acquired 99-year leases for U.S. bases in the Atlantic and the Caribbean. These arrangements were under what are termed "executive agreements." A gale of protest arose from interested quarters not consulted. While this aid to Britain was popular, neither Congress nor the people had been taken into Roosevelt's confidence. ★ The extended debate on the Bricker amendment in the early 1950's dealt with the exercise of executive power in vital foreign relations matters without the advice and consent of the Senate, but the effort to curb executive agreements failed by one vote in the Senate. Mr. Kennedy chooses to emulate his illustrious idol, Roosevelt. Already congressional opinion is gathering to condemn the executive branch's arbitrary manner of carrying off vital policy decisions without consultation. Congress is gravely concerned with the momentous decisions mentioned above, and justifiably so. In a speech before the Air War College a few days ago, Sen. Barry Goldwater raised pertinent questions. Among other things he said: "As far as I have been able to ascertain in the short time that I have been in Washington since the opening of this Congress, not one member of the Senate Armed Services Committee was apprised of the decision to scrap Skybolt and to offer the Polaris missiles to NATO." He pointed out, too, that the 87th Congress almost unanimously supported additional appropriations for the B-70 program, but that the Department of Defense has refused to recognize the will of Congress. This, says Goldwater, "is a very obvious example of the growing determination of the executive to ignore the wishes of the legislative." Since these programs are the result of the budgeting process in which our highest military officers participate, it is clear that the developments regarding Skybolt and the B-70 are indicative of the civilian executive's undermining the judgment of the military as well. ★ However, this administration's downgrading of our highest military men, replacing their judgment by youthful "cost effectiveness analysts" and the moving parts of great computers, is another story. Here we should consider the function of the whole Senate in matters involving the largest area of international relations. Whether a separate nuclear force can be given to our allies without the advice and consent of the Senate is highly questionable. But through executive agreements, parts that would amount to such a nuclear force can be given. It appears that Mr. Kennedy chooses to handle the matter in this way. As Sen. Goldwater told the Air War College, "The movement today is away from the federal system of balanced powers toward an executive system of concentrated powers." Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Kennedy May Be Trying to Bypass Congress on Vital Policy Issues BY RAYMOND
MOLEY President Kennedy's aversion to advice or criticism is now well known. He
has become accustomed to making decisions on his own without the benefit of the
counsel of the best informed and obviously interested sources. The amateurs'
invasion of Cuba was a case in point. Recently, with his Secretary of Defense,
Robert McNamara, Mr. Kennedy has shown this trait in reaching other grave
decisions. The offer of Polaris to Great Britain and France, the cancellation
of the Skybolt missile program, the elimination of the B-70 manned bomber
program, and the announcement of the "phase theory" and the "no-cities theory"
underline a renewal of a policy by the executive branch to push its powers to
the limit without even the pretense of consultation with congressional leaders.
* The history of "executive agreements" is a long and sometimes bitter story.
President Kennedy's and Secretary McNamara's arbitrary actions of the past few
weeks are the opening lines of another chapter. For who doubts that the
Congress feels strongly that foreign policy, atomic energy, and defense
decisions of such moment should have been made with its full cognizance? Such
brandishing of the executive power recalls the stroke of Franklin D. Roosevelt,
acting on his own in 1940, when he transferred 50 destroyers to Britain and
acquired 99-year leases for U.S. bases in the Atlantic and the Caribbean. These
arrangements were under what are termed "executive agreements." A gale of
protest arose from interested quarters not consulted. While this aid to Britain
was popular, neither Congress nor the people had been taken into Roosevelt's
confidence. ★ The extended debate on the Bricker amendment in the early 1950's
dealt with the exercise of executive power in vital foreign relations matters
without the advice and consent of the Senate, but the effort to curb executive
agreements failed by one vote in the Senate. Mr. Kennedy chooses to emulate his
illustrious idol, Roosevelt. Already congressional opinion is gathering to
condemn the executive branch's arbitrary manner of carrying off vital policy
decisions without consultation. Congress is gravely concerned with the
momentous decisions mentioned above, and justifiably so. In a speech before the
Air War College a few days ago, Sen. Barry Goldwater raised pertinent
questions. Among other things he said: "As far as I have been able to ascertain
in the short time that I have been in Washington since the opening of this
Congress, not one member of the Senate Armed Services Committee was apprised of
the decision to scrap Skybolt and to offer the Polaris missiles to NATO." He
pointed out, too, that the 87th Congress almost unanimously supported
additional appropriations for the B-70 program, but that the Department of
Defense has refused to recognize the will of Congress. This, says Goldwater,
"is a very obvious example of the growing determination of the executive to
ignore the wishes of the legislative." Since these programs are the result of
the budgeting process in which our highest military officers participate, it is
clear that the developments regarding Skybolt and the B-70 are indicative of
the civilian executive's undermining the judgment of the military as well. ★
However, this administration's downgrading of our highest military men,
replacing their judgment by youthful "cost effectiveness analysts" and the
moving parts of great computers, is another story. Here we should consider the
function of the whole Senate in matters involving the largest area of
international relations. Whether a separate nuclear force can be given to our
allies without the advice and consent of the Senate is highly questionable. But
through executive agreements, parts that would amount to such a nuclear force
can be given. It appears that Mr. Kennedy chooses to handle the matter in this
way. As Sen. Goldwater told the Air War College, "The movement today is away
from the federal system of balanced powers toward an executive system of
concentrated powers." Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: Issues Look Promising for GOP in 1964 Race
Date: 1963-04-15
Publication: LAT
Text: Issues Look Promising for GOP in 1964 Race BY RAYMOND MOLEY If issues were all that were needed to win an election, Republicans might well look to 1964 with exhilarating optimism. But more important than issues are organization and attractive candidates. And the most important of all is organization. Republicans have an abundance of issues. The extravagant promises of candidate John F. Kennedy in 1960 have not been fulfilled. Not only have this welfare programs been rejected in Congress, but they have not ignited enthusiastic support among the citizens of the nation. ★ There is cause and effect here. For had those programs been appealing, there would have been more response in Congress. Moreover, Mr. Kennedy's defense of his welfare programs has not been effectively presented. His mind and his political sense have been in his appeals, but not his heart and emotion. His strange and unorthodox fiscal policies have not been accepted by the public. Such concepts as planned deficits and growth by spending and the rejection of the copybook maxims are widely accepted in the academic world, but they are remote from the traditions and habits of voters. * On the international scene, this administration has been inept and fumbling. Communism has not lost ground. It has gained. The administration has chilled our friendships with our former stout allies. The Cuban fiasco from first to last has been well aired and is well known to the public. Even the military policies of the excessively dynamic Secretary Robert McNamara have been thrown under clouds of doubt and suspicion. At this writing, the Republicans have more and better issues than they have had in many years. It would be idle to speculate at this time about a Republican candidate against Mr. Kennedy. The "most mentioned" are Goldwater and Rockefeller, or Rockefeller and Goldwater, according to what part of the country you are listening to. Rockefeller has made speeches which differentiate his policies from those of the President. He has also been a wise and prudent governor. Goldwater elicits great enthusiasm wherever he travels, but he has a hard race for re-election to the Senate before him and he might not actively seek the nomination. But in organization, the advantages are all with the President. As President, he has available what F. D. R. once called "vast instrumentalities of power." Great expenditures of federal money win grateful and still expectant support. The immense bureaucracy, despite Civil Service and the Hatch Act, provides a nationwide machine. Whole regions, and especially urban centers, can be won by federal grants, subventions, and defense contracts. * On the other hand, the weaknesses in Republican organization which lost the election Richard Nixon in 1960 still remain. Only minor repairs have been made. The brightest spot is in the South, where Republicanism is vigorously promoted and is growing fast. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Issues Look Promising for GOP in 1964 Race BY RAYMOND MOLEY If issues were all
that were needed to win an election, Republicans might well look to 1964 with
exhilarating optimism. But more important than issues are organization and
attractive candidates. And the most important of all is organization.
Republicans have an abundance of issues. The extravagant promises of candidate
John F. Kennedy in 1960 have not been fulfilled. Not only have this welfare
programs been rejected in Congress, but they have not ignited enthusiastic
support among the citizens of the nation. ★ There is cause and effect here. For
had those programs been appealing, there would have been more response in
Congress. Moreover, Mr. Kennedy's defense of his welfare programs has not been
effectively presented. His mind and his political sense have been in his
appeals, but not his heart and emotion. His strange and unorthodox fiscal
policies have not been accepted by the public. Such concepts as planned
deficits and growth by spending and the rejection of the copybook maxims are
widely accepted in the academic world, but they are remote from the traditions
and habits of voters. * On the international scene, this administration has
been inept and fumbling. Communism has not lost ground. It has gained. The
administration has chilled our friendships with our former stout allies. The
Cuban fiasco from first to last has been well aired and is well known to the
public. Even the military policies of the excessively dynamic Secretary Robert
McNamara have been thrown under clouds of doubt and suspicion. At this writing,
the Republicans have more and better issues than they have had in many years.
It would be idle to speculate at this time about a Republican candidate against
Mr. Kennedy. The "most mentioned" are Goldwater and Rockefeller, or Rockefeller
and Goldwater, according to what part of the country you are listening to.
Rockefeller has made speeches which differentiate his policies from those of
the President. He has also been a wise and prudent governor. Goldwater elicits
great enthusiasm wherever he travels, but he has a hard race for re-election to
the Senate before him and he might not actively seek the nomination. But in
organization, the advantages are all with the President. As President, he has
available what F. D. R. once called "vast instrumentalities of power." Great
expenditures of federal money win grateful and still expectant support. The
immense bureaucracy, despite Civil Service and the Hatch Act, provides a
nationwide machine. Whole regions, and especially urban centers, can be won by
federal grants, subventions, and defense contracts. * On the other hand, the
weaknesses in Republican organization which lost the election Richard Nixon in
1960 still remain. Only minor repairs have been made. The brightest spot is in
the South, where Republicanism is vigorously promoted and is growing fast.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction
prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: Goldwater: Will He or Won't He?
Date: 1963-04-22
Publication: LAT
Text: Goldwater: Will He or Won't He? PHOENIX, Ariz. Here in Goldwater country it is difficult to escape the infectious enthusiasm for a favorite son. Thousands here and in the states of Oklahoma and Texas, which I have visited on the way out from New York, believe Sen. Barry Goldwater cannot only be nominated as the Republi- can candidate for Pres- ident next year but elect- ed. In fact, these people believe he is the only Republican candidate who could defeat President Kennedy. * That is a matter that only time can determine. But it is possible to state what Goldwater thinks about it and to offer a few comments of my own upon what may happen. When Goldwater says he is thinking only about his candidacy for the Sen- ate in 1964, he means just that. He realizes that seeking a Presidential nomination is a very pre- carious enterprise. The paths to nominations in the past have been strewn with frustrated hopes. The odds in that race, so far as members of a party out of power are concerned, are heavily against every en- try. There is timing to be considered also. To be in the lead too soon is more often than not fatal. Condi- tions change from month to month — conditions which affect the Kennedy fortunes and popularity. Successes and failures, both domestic and interna- tional, succeed each other with regularity. No one knows how those may affect the potential of the President. Goldwater enjoys the life of a senator and also his great influence in the national scene. Even if it were legally possible for him to run for re-election as senator here and also for President, it would be very risky business. For Arizona is not Texas, where Lyndon B. Johnson arranged in 1960 to be a Goldwater candidate for senator and Vice President at the same time. Until Goldwater ap- peared in politics, Arizona was a Democratic state and Democratic strength is still formidable except in Maricopa County. To ter- minate Goldwater's career in public office would be a loss not only to him but to the causes for which he is so notable an exponent. Almost single-handed since he entered the Sen- ate in 1953, he has made the word "conservative" respectable and meaning- ful in this country. * So he has determined to have no part, even by tacit approval, in the Goldwa- ter-for-President move- ment. But the demand for him is a reality. It is over- whelming among the growing ranks of Republi- cans in the South and all over the West and Mid- West. To combine the political values of both Nelson Rockefeller and Goldwa- ter in a ticket is wishful thinking by those who have a habit of seeking compromise. For Goldwa- ter would rather be a senator than a Vice Pres- ident. * While there has been no announcement, Rockefel- ler may well actively seek delegates through a strong organization and enter the primaries, the first of which is still 11 months away. Goldwater sentiment will grow stronger in all these months. And if the sentiment for Goldwater, without his lifting a finger himself, is strong enough literally to force a nomina- tion at the Republican convention 15 months hence, there will be evidence that Goldwater can win the election. That may resolve the problem. But if Rockefel- ler is nominated, he can be assured of strong and active support from the Arizona senator. * One factor must be considered. Goldwater is a loyal party man. He is no extremist. He has little sympathy for extreme people who call them- selves conservative and who will scatter and run if, as is essential in any candidate, Goldwater should follow a course which would unite his party. His best friends under- stand this out here. For even in Arizona there has been unhappiness among the ultra-conservatives about Goldwater's reason- able moderation. The value of Goldwater is for those sincere conser- vative Republicans who are moderate in their demands for change. The extremists are not worth anything to the Republl- can cause. They are a cross to bear, not a staff to support. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Goldwater: Will He or Won't He? PHOENIX, Ariz. Here in Goldwater country it is
difficult to escape the infectious enthusiasm for a favorite son. Thousands
here and in the states of Oklahoma and Texas, which I have visited on the way
out from New York, believe Sen. Barry Goldwater cannot only be nominated as the
Republi- can candidate for Pres- ident next year but elect- ed. In fact, these
people believe he is the only Republican candidate who could defeat President
Kennedy. * That is a matter that only time can determine. But it is possible to
state what Goldwater thinks about it and to offer a few comments of my own upon
what may happen. When Goldwater says he is thinking only about his candidacy
for the Sen- ate in 1964, he means just that. He realizes that seeking a
Presidential nomination is a very pre- carious enterprise. The paths to
nominations in the past have been strewn with frustrated hopes. The odds in
that race, so far as members of a party out of power are concerned, are heavily
against every en- try. There is timing to be considered also. To be in the lead
too soon is more often than not fatal. Condi- tions change from month to month
— conditions which affect the Kennedy fortunes and popularity. Successes and
failures, both domestic and interna- tional, succeed each other with
regularity. No one knows how those may affect the potential of the President.
Goldwater enjoys the life of a senator and also his great influence in the
national scene. Even if it were legally possible for him to run for re-election
as senator here and also for President, it would be very risky business. For
Arizona is not Texas, where Lyndon B. Johnson arranged in 1960 to be a
Goldwater candidate for senator and Vice President at the same time. Until
Goldwater ap- peared in politics, Arizona was a Democratic state and Democratic
strength is still formidable except in Maricopa County. To ter- minate
Goldwater's career in public office would be a loss not only to him but to the
causes for which he is so notable an exponent. Almost single-handed since he
entered the Sen- ate in 1953, he has made the word "conservative" respectable
and meaning- ful in this country. * So he has determined to have no part, even
by tacit approval, in the Goldwa- ter-for-President move- ment. But the demand
for him is a reality. It is over- whelming among the growing ranks of Republi-
cans in the South and all over the West and Mid- West. To combine the political
values of both Nelson Rockefeller and Goldwa- ter in a ticket is wishful
thinking by those who have a habit of seeking compromise. For Goldwa- ter would
rather be a senator than a Vice Pres- ident. * While there has been no
announcement, Rockefel- ler may well actively seek delegates through a strong
organization and enter the primaries, the first of which is still 11 months
away. Goldwater sentiment will grow stronger in all these months. And if the
sentiment for Goldwater, without his lifting a finger himself, is strong enough
literally to force a nomina- tion at the Republican convention 15 months hence,
there will be evidence that Goldwater can win the election. That may resolve
the problem. But if Rockefel- ler is nominated, he can be assured of strong and
active support from the Arizona senator. * One factor must be considered.
Goldwater is a loyal party man. He is no extremist. He has little sympathy for
extreme people who call them- selves conservative and who will scatter and run
if, as is essential in any candidate, Goldwater should follow a course which
would unite his party. His best friends under- stand this out here. For even in
Arizona there has been unhappiness among the ultra-conservatives about
Goldwater's reason- able moderation. The value of Goldwater is for those
sincere conser- vative Republicans who are moderate in their demands for
change. The extremists are not worth anything to the Republl- can cause. They
are a cross to bear, not a staff to support. Reproduced with permission of the
copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: Goldwater on Extremists: THE SENATOR AGREES
Date: 1963-07-29
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **PERSPECTIVE** **Goldwater on Extremists** *by Raymond Moley* GOVERNOR Rockefeller's attack upon extremists was immediately interpreted in some sections of the press as a pointed criticism of Senator Goldwater. The governor later, in response to press questioning, said that "while I have great respect for Barry's patriotism, his dedication to political life . . . I have some concern whether he may not end up as a captive of those elements." This raises certain questions which I shall attempt to answer in this and a subsequent article. The first is what has been Goldwater's attitude toward extremists and extremism? Another, considering the fact that the Rockefeller statement made a great deal of the racial issue, what has been Goldwater's record on the racial issue? The governor is somewhat late in bringing up the question of extremism. In August 1959 in a piece entitled "All or Nothing?" I referred to people who "in the past or recently have expressed, either in print or personally, unhappiness concerning political leaders whose views and votes have not completely and specifically met their own convictions. The vice of such irreconcilability is that it defeats the very objectives which most conservatives are earnestly seeking. This habit, it seems to me, is much more a threat to sound government than all the power and prattle of radicals. The all-or-nothing attitude means a house divided, which cannot stand." **THE SENATOR AGREES** Almost immediately after this appeared in print, I had a totally unsolicited letter from Goldwater which expressed thorough agreement with my statement. Ten months later I returned to the subject in a piece entitled "The Irreconcilables," in which I wrote: "Goldwater is not irreconcilable. He realizes that to throw into sharp reverse the trend of the past 25 years would be inexpedient and self-defeating. What is needed is to slow up the drift to the left before it is too late." Again I had a letter of commendation and agreement from Goldwater: "Your column is good and I hope we can get the conservatives to take up this line. To put it in a very simple way, the Democrats have their political liabilities, but they say they are Democrats and they vote for Democrats in the hope that they can change them, but with a Republican the answer has been, 'We just don't vote for him—that will teach him a lesson.'" Essentially, Goldwater believes in attaining reasonably conservative ends through supporting the Republican Party and all its candidates. His moving speech at the Republican convention seconding the nomination of Richard Nixon urged his followers, who were crying out for his nomination, instead to get into the Republican ranks and work and support the ticket. In the campaign which followed, Goldwater made innumerable speeches supporting the Republican Party and all its candidates. **RECORD ON CIVIL RIGHTS** In 1962 he was asked whether, if he were a voter in New York, he would support Senator Javits. He said he would, and as chairman of the Senatorial Campaign Committee he actually raised funds for Javits, as he did for all other Republican candidates for the Senate. In the Rockefeller statement a considerable space is given to the racial issue. For several years after 1946, Goldwater was a member of the NAACP. He was and is a member of the Urban League. As a powerful officer in the Arizona Air National Guard he brought about its integration. When he went to high school in Phoenix the school was integrated. Later it was segregated. But when he was a member of the NAACP after the war he helped to bring about the reintegration of the school and gave money to fight the case in the courts. Thus the implications in Rockefeller's language are not only unfair to the Arizona senator himself, but a grave reflection upon all those who want to support Goldwater for President. Nobody who has any sense can believe that this man, who has stood so firmly in the minority for conservative principles for so many years, could be a "prisoner" of anybody or anything except his convictions. *Newsweek, July 29, 1963*
Full Context: **PERSPECTIVE** **Goldwater on Extremists** *by Raymond Moley* GOVERNOR
Rockefeller's attack upon extremists was immediately interpreted in some
sections of the press as a pointed criticism of Senator Goldwater. The governor
later, in response to press questioning, said that "while I have great respect
for Barry's patriotism, his dedication to political life . . . I have some
concern whether he may not end up as a captive of those elements." This raises
certain questions which I shall attempt to answer in this and a subsequent
article. The first is what has been Goldwater's attitude toward extremists and
extremism? Another, considering the fact that the Rockefeller statement made a
great deal of the racial issue, what has been Goldwater's record on the racial
issue? The governor is somewhat late in bringing up the question of extremism.
In August 1959 in a piece entitled "All or Nothing?" I referred to people who
"in the past or recently have expressed, either in print or personally,
unhappiness concerning political leaders whose views and votes have not
completely and specifically met their own convictions. The vice of such
irreconcilability is that it defeats the very objectives which most
conservatives are earnestly seeking. This habit, it seems to me, is much more a
threat to sound government than all the power and prattle of radicals. The
all-or-nothing attitude means a house divided, which cannot stand." **THE
SENATOR AGREES** Almost immediately after this appeared in print, I had a
totally unsolicited letter from Goldwater which expressed thorough agreement
with my statement. Ten months later I returned to the subject in a piece
entitled "The Irreconcilables," in which I wrote: "Goldwater is not
irreconcilable. He realizes that to throw into sharp reverse the trend of the
past 25 years would be inexpedient and self-defeating. What is needed is to
slow up the drift to the left before it is too late." Again I had a letter of
commendation and agreement from Goldwater: "Your column is good and I hope we
can get the conservatives to take up this line. To put it in a very simple way,
the Democrats have their political liabilities, but they say they are Democrats
and they vote for Democrats in the hope that they can change them, but with a
Republican the answer has been, 'We just don't vote for him—that will teach him
a lesson.'" Essentially, Goldwater believes in attaining reasonably
conservative ends through supporting the Republican Party and all its
candidates. His moving speech at the Republican convention seconding the
nomination of Richard Nixon urged his followers, who were crying out for his
nomination, instead to get into the Republican ranks and work and support the
ticket. In the campaign which followed, Goldwater made innumerable speeches
supporting the Republican Party and all its candidates. **RECORD ON CIVIL
RIGHTS** In 1962 he was asked whether, if he were a voter in New York, he would
support Senator Javits. He said he would, and as chairman of the Senatorial
Campaign Committee he actually raised funds for Javits, as he did for all other
Republican candidates for the Senate. In the Rockefeller statement a
considerable space is given to the racial issue. For several years after 1946,
Goldwater was a member of the NAACP. He was and is a member of the Urban
League. As a powerful officer in the Arizona Air National Guard he brought
about its integration. When he went to high school in Phoenix the school was
integrated. Later it was segregated. But when he was a member of the NAACP
after the war he helped to bring about the reintegration of the school and gave
money to fight the case in the courts. Thus the implications in Rockefeller's
language are not only unfair to the Arizona senator himself, but a grave
reflection upon all those who want to support Goldwater for President. Nobody
who has any sense can believe that this man, who has stood so firmly in the
minority for conservative principles for so many years, could be a "prisoner"
of anybody or anything except his convictions. *Newsweek, July 29, 1963*

==================================================

Title: GOP Has a Case in Every State
Date: 1963-08-06
Publication: LAT
Text: GOP Has a Case in Every State BY RAYMOND MOLEY I have noticed this summer, with the 1964 election still 15 months away, two sorts of compilations of electoral votes designed to show that a Republican can be elected President next year. Some of these have appeared in the press. Some are privately distributed. There is no harm in such a numbers game, except that in toting up the votes necessary to elect a man they carry the implication that certain states can be written off. Since Sen. Barry Goldwater seems to be the most prominent potential candidate in these Republican speculations, such figure exercises are generally the product of people who are for or against his nomination. One sort of compilation seeks to show that someone other than Goldwater should be nominated because he could carry New York and enough big industrial states, especially in the eastern half of the country, to win. These figures write off the South. Another type, which favors Goldwater, would "give" him the South, most of the West except California, and a sufficient number of Midwestern states to win. New York and several industrial states are written off. ★ One of these is a fetching little essay which has had wide distribution by a would-be king-maker. His composition is a "blueprint" for Republican success. Interestingly enough, this individual apparently did not vote for the Republican ticket in 1960 and 1962. He is probably what I call a "conditional" Republican. This means a person who will support the candidate if the GOP convention nominates the man he wants. Real professionals in politics may make guarded claims, but they concede nothing. They fight for every state, just as Nixon and Kennedy did in 1960. If a candidate or his managers conclude a week or two before election that their cause is hopeless in some state or states, they keep their opinions to themselves. For Americans don't like to be taken for granted. Republican chances in 1964 anywhere cannot be predicted now. Almost everything depends upon what happens to or for or against President Kennedy in the many months ahead. The test ban agreement—which at the moment is a plus for him—may turn sour, or it may be followed by better and better relations with the Soviet in the months ahead. What will be the trend of the balance of payments and the outflow of gold? What will be the economic situation in 1964? And since Republican speculation mostly concerns the question of civil rights and race relations, we shall have to wait to see what happens to the Kennedy status with both Negroes and whites as events unfold themselves. There can be no assurance that the present 90% Democratic preference of Negro voters will remain unchanged, or that this preponderance of Negro votes for the Democrats will or will not alienate many white votes. If demonstrations get out of hand, many Negroes will be alienated from their present leaders. Some of their leaders are already critical of the administration and of Congress. ★ It must be remembered before any states are written off that a Republican candidate—Goldwater himself, in fact—can make an excellent case for Republicans on the civil rights issue. A tabulation of Senate votes since 1933 and up to 1962 shows that a majority of Democratic senators have voted against civil rights issues in every instance except two. At the same time, in every case except one a majority of Republicans have voted for such measures, in five cases by 100%. In the House, Republicans have outvoted Democrats in proportion to their strength. House Republicans have scored from 68 to 100% favorable to civil rights, while Democrats have failed to muster a majority in half of the roll calls. Even in the South, Republican majorities in cities are far more favorable to Negro rights than Democratic majorities in non-urban districts. ★ These facts, which Goldwater or any other Republican candidate in 1964 can show, mean that no one can reasonably write off the South for any Republican candidate. This Republican showing will influence at least a good minority of thoughtful Negroes, but many more white people who are tired of Democratic intra-party fighting over the subject. Thus, no state can be written off glibly on this issue. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: GOP Has a Case in Every State BY RAYMOND MOLEY I have noticed this summer, with
the 1964 election still 15 months away, two sorts of compilations of electoral
votes designed to show that a Republican can be elected President next year.
Some of these have appeared in the press. Some are privately distributed. There
is no harm in such a numbers game, except that in toting up the votes necessary
to elect a man they carry the implication that certain states can be written
off. Since Sen. Barry Goldwater seems to be the most prominent potential
candidate in these Republican speculations, such figure exercises are generally
the product of people who are for or against his nomination. One sort of
compilation seeks to show that someone other than Goldwater should be nominated
because he could carry New York and enough big industrial states, especially in
the eastern half of the country, to win. These figures write off the South.
Another type, which favors Goldwater, would "give" him the South, most of the
West except California, and a sufficient number of Midwestern states to win.
New York and several industrial states are written off. ★ One of these is a
fetching little essay which has had wide distribution by a would-be king-maker.
His composition is a "blueprint" for Republican success. Interestingly enough,
this individual apparently did not vote for the Republican ticket in 1960 and
1962. He is probably what I call a "conditional" Republican. This means a
person who will support the candidate if the GOP convention nominates the man
he wants. Real professionals in politics may make guarded claims, but they
concede nothing. They fight for every state, just as Nixon and Kennedy did in
1960. If a candidate or his managers conclude a week or two before election
that their cause is hopeless in some state or states, they keep their opinions
to themselves. For Americans don't like to be taken for granted. Republican
chances in 1964 anywhere cannot be predicted now. Almost everything depends
upon what happens to or for or against President Kennedy in the many months
ahead. The test ban agreement—which at the moment is a plus for him—may turn
sour, or it may be followed by better and better relations with the Soviet in
the months ahead. What will be the trend of the balance of payments and the
outflow of gold? What will be the economic situation in 1964? And since
Republican speculation mostly concerns the question of civil rights and race
relations, we shall have to wait to see what happens to the Kennedy status with
both Negroes and whites as events unfold themselves. There can be no assurance
that the present 90% Democratic preference of Negro voters will remain
unchanged, or that this preponderance of Negro votes for the Democrats will or
will not alienate many white votes. If demonstrations get out of hand, many
Negroes will be alienated from their present leaders. Some of their leaders are
already critical of the administration and of Congress. ★ It must be remembered
before any states are written off that a Republican candidate—Goldwater
himself, in fact—can make an excellent case for Republicans on the civil rights
issue. A tabulation of Senate votes since 1933 and up to 1962 shows that a
majority of Democratic senators have voted against civil rights issues in every
instance except two. At the same time, in every case except one a majority of
Republicans have voted for such measures, in five cases by 100%. In the House,
Republicans have outvoted Democrats in proportion to their strength. House
Republicans have scored from 68 to 100% favorable to civil rights, while
Democrats have failed to muster a majority in half of the roll calls. Even in
the South, Republican majorities in cities are far more favorable to Negro
rights than Democratic majorities in non-urban districts. ★ These facts, which
Goldwater or any other Republican candidate in 1964 can show, mean that no one
can reasonably write off the South for any Republican candidate. This
Republican showing will influence at least a good minority of thoughtful
Negroes, but many more white people who are tired of Democratic intra-party
fighting over the subject. Thus, no state can be written off glibly on this
issue. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction
prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: The Young Republicans: THE GROUPS
Date: 1963-08-12
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **PERSPECTIVE** **The Young Republicans** **by Raymond Moley** IN SEVERAL articles I have pointed out that the future of the Republican Party and of truly conservative principles lies with the younger generation. In the House of Representatives three or four dozen members whose ages range from 30 to 55 have shown a marked capacity to work together. This provides meaning and substance to the opposition. In the South, as well as elsewhere, official leaders in the Republican organizations show this accent on youth. Many thousands of young men and women have entered political life in various Young Republican organizations. A few YR's, however, have created very serious problems for the Republican Party and its responsible leaders. This was garishly illustrated in the national Young Republican convention in San Francisco in June. The situation there was not, as some say, a struggle between the liberal and conservative "wings" of the GOP. Nor was it, as Governor Rockefeller has said, a manifestation of extremism. The confusion was too complex to be dismissed by superficial and uninformed generalities. To get things into perspective, I have talked with several present and former YR leaders, some of whom were present in San Francisco. I have also consulted three Republican U.S. senators who have taken a sympathetic interest in the YR's. **THE GROUPS** Four distinct elements were involved in that unfortunate affair: One group, probably a legitimate majority, was concerned with Republican unity in 1964. While a majority of this group favored Senator Goldwater, it opposed using the convention to endorse any possible candidate. It felt that its responsibility is "to elect, not select" the candidate chosen by the GOP in 1964. Another group was identified with the "Draft Goldwater" movement and sought to put the convention on record for their candidate. A small number, mostly from California, were genuine extremists, espousing such issues as the repeal of the income tax, isolation from international affairs, the creation of a super Supreme Court, and that old chestnut, the impeachment of Earl Warren. Such chimerical objectives would never be favored by a responsible political party or by more than a tiny sprinkling of Americans. Despite Governor Rockefeller's fears, these people will never "capture" anything. Finally, there were certain clever fellows, "operators," who were interested in infiltrating delegations, in creating confusion, and in rough tactics. They are solely interested in gaining personal power. They hate the idea of Republican unity. Their loyalty to any party has never been in evidence in the past. **PLANNED CONFUSION** The first two of these groups are perfectly sincere in their objectives. They will no doubt work for any candidate chosen by the GOP. The latter two are merely using Goldwater's name for their own purposes. Probably if Goldwater were nominated they would desert him after he presented a program designed to unite all Republicans. They are a liability and an embarrassment to the Republican Party, to Goldwater himself, and to millions of rank-and-file Republicans and conservative Democrats who hope for Republican success next year. The confusion at the YR convention at San Francisco was in some part due to the immaturity of the people officially in charge. The rules were inadequate, and some of the rules which they had were not enforced. The officers were not prepared for calculated confusion. But if any such tactics appear at the GOP convention, these elements will be taken in hand by hard-bitten professionals. There will be no control and no dictation by extremists and "operators." No such disorder marked the YR state convention in Ohio a month after San Francisco. After some sage advice from the immensely competent GOP State Chairman Ray Bliss, the people in charge maintained order. Goldwater made it clear that he wanted his name kept out of the proceedings. For Goldwater is concerned with fostering Republican unity. Without it, no Republican candidate can win in 1964. Newsweek, August 12, 1963
Full Context: **PERSPECTIVE** **The Young Republicans** **by Raymond Moley** IN SEVERAL
articles I have pointed out that the future of the Republican Party and of
truly conservative principles lies with the younger generation. In the House of
Representatives three or four dozen members whose ages range from 30 to 55 have
shown a marked capacity to work together. This provides meaning and substance
to the opposition. In the South, as well as elsewhere, official leaders in the
Republican organizations show this accent on youth. Many thousands of young men
and women have entered political life in various Young Republican
organizations. A few YR's, however, have created very serious problems for the
Republican Party and its responsible leaders. This was garishly illustrated in
the national Young Republican convention in San Francisco in June. The
situation there was not, as some say, a struggle between the liberal and
conservative "wings" of the GOP. Nor was it, as Governor Rockefeller has said,
a manifestation of extremism. The confusion was too complex to be dismissed by
superficial and uninformed generalities. To get things into perspective, I have
talked with several present and former YR leaders, some of whom were present in
San Francisco. I have also consulted three Republican U.S. senators who have
taken a sympathetic interest in the YR's. **THE GROUPS** Four distinct elements
were involved in that unfortunate affair: One group, probably a legitimate
majority, was concerned with Republican unity in 1964. While a majority of this
group favored Senator Goldwater, it opposed using the convention to endorse any
possible candidate. It felt that its responsibility is "to elect, not select"
the candidate chosen by the GOP in 1964. Another group was identified with the
"Draft Goldwater" movement and sought to put the convention on record for their
candidate. A small number, mostly from California, were genuine extremists,
espousing such issues as the repeal of the income tax, isolation from
international affairs, the creation of a super Supreme Court, and that old
chestnut, the impeachment of Earl Warren. Such chimerical objectives would
never be favored by a responsible political party or by more than a tiny
sprinkling of Americans. Despite Governor Rockefeller's fears, these people
will never "capture" anything. Finally, there were certain clever fellows,
"operators," who were interested in infiltrating delegations, in creating
confusion, and in rough tactics. They are solely interested in gaining personal
power. They hate the idea of Republican unity. Their loyalty to any party has
never been in evidence in the past. **PLANNED CONFUSION** The first two of
these groups are perfectly sincere in their objectives. They will no doubt work
for any candidate chosen by the GOP. The latter two are merely using
Goldwater's name for their own purposes. Probably if Goldwater were nominated
they would desert him after he presented a program designed to unite all
Republicans. They are a liability and an embarrassment to the Republican Party,
to Goldwater himself, and to millions of rank-and-file Republicans and
conservative Democrats who hope for Republican success next year. The confusion
at the YR convention at San Francisco was in some part due to the immaturity of
the people officially in charge. The rules were inadequate, and some of the
rules which they had were not enforced. The officers were not prepared for
calculated confusion. But if any such tactics appear at the GOP convention,
these elements will be taken in hand by hard-bitten professionals. There will
be no control and no dictation by extremists and "operators." No such disorder
marked the YR state convention in Ohio a month after San Francisco. After some
sage advice from the immensely competent GOP State Chairman Ray Bliss, the
people in charge maintained order. Goldwater made it clear that he wanted his
name kept out of the proceedings. For Goldwater is concerned with fostering
Republican unity. Without it, no Republican candidate can win in 1964.
Newsweek, August 12, 1963

==================================================

Title: Goldwater's Education: RESOURCEFUL MIND
Date: 1963-10-07
Publication: Newsweek
Text: PERSPECTIVE Goldwater's Education by Raymond Moley IN THE press and in the talks which I have had with the "anybody- but-Goldwater" Republicans I note a sudden change in the criticisms of the Arizona senator. There is no longer a harping on the charge that he is an "extremist." Over the past six weeks Goldwater has in printed interviews and many press confer- ences stated his views on a great range of national and international is- sues. Even his most violent earlier critics grudgingly admit that he is not an "extremist" but a "moderate." Nor can it be claimed, as it was about Taft, that he would be an un- popular candidate. His recent appear- ances from coast to coast, culminating in a 42,000, World Series-size crowd in the Dodger Stadium in Los An- geles, have disposed of that attack. A more subtle gambit is now cur- rent among anti-Goldwater Republi- cans. This is a snooty appraisal based upon the rather limited contribution to Goldwater's equipment provided by formal education and "deep" reading. These critics are mostly sit- ting proudly upon an A.B. or sporting a Phi Beta Kappa key (which may or may not have been earned in col- lege). Arthur Krock, whom I revere as the foremost American political commentator, tells that another com- mentator, who is published over the nation, said in a dinner-table conver- sation that Goldwater "is illiterate and third-rate." RESOURCEFUL MIND Perhaps I have the academic cre- dentials to comment upon this anti- Goldwater attack. But academic credentials are a minor qualification in grappling with public issues and national policies. The indispensable ingredients are a resourceful mind and an abundance of common sense. Barry Goldwater's grammar-school record was only fair. After a rather poor first year in high school, his fa- ther and his highly intelligent and practical mother sent Barry to the Staunton (Virginia) Military Acad- emy. After four years there he grad- uated, leaving behind a high opinion of his mastery of military matters in the cadet corps. He then entered the University of Arizona, but left in 1929 when his father died. At the age of 20 he entered the Goldwater mer- chant enterprise and helped carry it successfully through the Depression. He ultimately became manager of the stores. When in 1952 his semi- learned opponent, the incumbent senator, called him a "ribbon clerk," Goldwater replied that he sold not only ribbons but shoes, calico, and dishes, and that he was a "damned good clerk." From 1941 to 1945 he served in the Air Force. In the years that fol- lowed, his great energies permitted him to learn more and more of mili- tary affairs, civic problems, business enterprise, and his special interests, electronics and photography. COMMON SENSE After he entered the Senate he carried on studies at the Air Univer- sity at Maxwell Field and wrote seri- ous papers on such military matters as the Polaris submarine. It is most relevant to suggest that since the government spends half its substance on military matters and a good proportion of the remainder in technical affairs, this intellectual equipment could serve the nation well. And since foreign affairs is so largely a matter of psychological ap- praisals, a knowledge of human na- ture should be indispensable. Also, since a President, as Wood- row Wilson once said, is the major spokesman to as well as for the na- tion, Goldwater's capacity to make matters of state intelligible to the people should clear up much of the confusion that now afflicts public knowledge of what government is do- ing and planning. I recently asked a priest and edi- tor with whom I have had a long correspondence to explain an obscure passage which I encountered in my reading. He replied: "Today there is a cult of obscurant- ism. The 'professional' scholar must lapse into his own form of hiero- glyphics. Don't let it bother you. To- day the tendency is to say, 'The man is crazy. He is talking sense'." If Goldwater's reliance on common sense is what is now occupying the attention of his critics, I am content. For common sense in high places is what the country sorely needs. Newsweek, October 7, 1963
Full Context: PERSPECTIVE Goldwater's Education by Raymond Moley IN THE press and in the
talks which I have had with the "anybody- but-Goldwater" Republicans I note a
sudden change in the criticisms of the Arizona senator. There is no longer a
harping on the charge that he is an "extremist." Over the past six weeks
Goldwater has in printed interviews and many press confer- ences stated his
views on a great range of national and international is- sues. Even his most
violent earlier critics grudgingly admit that he is not an "extremist" but a
"moderate." Nor can it be claimed, as it was about Taft, that he would be an
un- popular candidate. His recent appear- ances from coast to coast,
culminating in a 42,000, World Series-size crowd in the Dodger Stadium in Los
An- geles, have disposed of that attack. A more subtle gambit is now cur- rent
among anti-Goldwater Republi- cans. This is a snooty appraisal based upon the
rather limited contribution to Goldwater's equipment provided by formal
education and "deep" reading. These critics are mostly sit- ting proudly upon
an A.B. or sporting a Phi Beta Kappa key (which may or may not have been earned
in col- lege). Arthur Krock, whom I revere as the foremost American political
commentator, tells that another com- mentator, who is published over the
nation, said in a dinner-table conver- sation that Goldwater "is illiterate and
third-rate." RESOURCEFUL MIND Perhaps I have the academic cre- dentials to
comment upon this anti- Goldwater attack. But academic credentials are a minor
qualification in grappling with public issues and national policies. The
indispensable ingredients are a resourceful mind and an abundance of common
sense. Barry Goldwater's grammar-school record was only fair. After a rather
poor first year in high school, his fa- ther and his highly intelligent and
practical mother sent Barry to the Staunton (Virginia) Military Acad- emy.
After four years there he grad- uated, leaving behind a high opinion of his
mastery of military matters in the cadet corps. He then entered the University
of Arizona, but left in 1929 when his father died. At the age of 20 he entered
the Goldwater mer- chant enterprise and helped carry it successfully through
the Depression. He ultimately became manager of the stores. When in 1952 his
semi- learned opponent, the incumbent senator, called him a "ribbon clerk,"
Goldwater replied that he sold not only ribbons but shoes, calico, and dishes,
and that he was a "damned good clerk." From 1941 to 1945 he served in the Air
Force. In the years that fol- lowed, his great energies permitted him to learn
more and more of mili- tary affairs, civic problems, business enterprise, and
his special interests, electronics and photography. COMMON SENSE After he
entered the Senate he carried on studies at the Air Univer- sity at Maxwell
Field and wrote seri- ous papers on such military matters as the Polaris
submarine. It is most relevant to suggest that since the government spends half
its substance on military matters and a good proportion of the remainder in
technical affairs, this intellectual equipment could serve the nation well. And
since foreign affairs is so largely a matter of psychological ap- praisals, a
knowledge of human na- ture should be indispensable. Also, since a President,
as Wood- row Wilson once said, is the major spokesman to as well as for the na-
tion, Goldwater's capacity to make matters of state intelligible to the people
should clear up much of the confusion that now afflicts public knowledge of
what government is do- ing and planning. I recently asked a priest and edi- tor
with whom I have had a long correspondence to explain an obscure passage which
I encountered in my reading. He replied: "Today there is a cult of obscurant-
ism. The 'professional' scholar must lapse into his own form of hiero-
glyphics. Don't let it bother you. To- day the tendency is to say, 'The man is
crazy. He is talking sense'." If Goldwater's reliance on common sense is what
is now occupying the attention of his critics, I am content. For common sense
in high places is what the country sorely needs. Newsweek, October 7, 1963

==================================================

Title: Ohio GOP Competent to Handle Own Affairs
Date: 1963-10-22
Publication: LAT
Text: Ohio GOP Competent to Handle Own Affairs BY RAYMOND MOLEY The most unusual, not to say incredible, phenomenon in American politics in more than one generation is the widespread demand this far before the Republican convention that Sen. Barry Goldwater be chosen as the Republican nominee in 1964. When there is an incumbent President eligible for another term, the choice is foreordained. But in the party out of power many circumstances have determined the choice other than popular demand for a single individual. * Some have been nominated because their managers effectively solicited the pledges of delegates. Some have been selected because of deadlocks. Others have been compromises when parties have been divided. But the demand for Goldwater has come from the general public sentiment that there should be an authentic alternative to President Kennedy and that the Arizona senator represents that sort of opposition. There are some Goldwater supporters who are deeply concerned because in some states the Republican organizations seem unwilling to commit themselves this early. Certain individuals in New York, who helped to create a conservative party in 1962 as a protest against the re-election of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and Sen. Jacob Javits, have been talking about pushing into Ohio and, despite the responsible Republican organization there, capturing its delegation for Goldwater. In Ohio there is some talk about offering its Republican governor, James A. Rhodes, as a favorite son candidate. But there is no such plan now in the minds of Ohio’s responsible Republican leaders. The reasons for the reluctance of Republican leaders in Ohio to commit themselves lie in certain very practical political considerations which amateur enthusiasts in other states should, in their own interest, heed and respect. I use Ohio to illustrate the practical facts because my information about the situation there comes from unimpeachable sources. Ohio has probably the most efficient state Republican organization in the entire nation. Ray C. Bliss, chairman of the state central committee, is largely responsible for that organization. In 1960, Ohio gave the Nixon-Lodge ticket the largest majority it received anywhere. In 1962 the Republicans swept the state, electing the governor, a majority of the state legislature, and 18 of the state’s 24 members of the House of Representatives. This efficient organization is prepared to win the state for the Republican ticket in 1964. But it wants no pre-convention contest. * Its reason for this is that if Goldwater is entered in the primary there may be other contestants, perhaps Gov. Rockefeller. This would involve an intra-party fight. Such a fight would consume money and resources badly needed to win in the election itself. It would also engender differences within the party. Since Cleveland and some other cities are Democratic, the Kennedy ticket will be very hard to beat. If the state is lost to President Kennedy, at least three or four incumbent Republican members of the House of Representatives will be defeated. Hence, a contest for the delegation would be a prelude to disaster. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Ohio GOP Competent to Handle Own Affairs BY RAYMOND MOLEY The most unusual, not
to say incredible, phenomenon in American politics in more than one generation
is the widespread demand this far before the Republican convention that Sen.
Barry Goldwater be chosen as the Republican nominee in 1964. When there is an
incumbent President eligible for another term, the choice is foreordained. But
in the party out of power many circumstances have determined the choice other
than popular demand for a single individual. * Some have been nominated because
their managers effectively solicited the pledges of delegates. Some have been
selected because of deadlocks. Others have been compromises when parties have
been divided. But the demand for Goldwater has come from the general public
sentiment that there should be an authentic alternative to President Kennedy
and that the Arizona senator represents that sort of opposition. There are some
Goldwater supporters who are deeply concerned because in some states the
Republican organizations seem unwilling to commit themselves this early.
Certain individuals in New York, who helped to create a conservative party in
1962 as a protest against the re-election of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and
Sen. Jacob Javits, have been talking about pushing into Ohio and, despite the
responsible Republican organization there, capturing its delegation for
Goldwater. In Ohio there is some talk about offering its Republican governor,
James A. Rhodes, as a favorite son candidate. But there is no such plan now in
the minds of Ohio’s responsible Republican leaders. The reasons for the
reluctance of Republican leaders in Ohio to commit themselves lie in certain
very practical political considerations which amateur enthusiasts in other
states should, in their own interest, heed and respect. I use Ohio to
illustrate the practical facts because my information about the situation there
comes from unimpeachable sources. Ohio has probably the most efficient state
Republican organization in the entire nation. Ray C. Bliss, chairman of the
state central committee, is largely responsible for that organization. In 1960,
Ohio gave the Nixon-Lodge ticket the largest majority it received anywhere. In
1962 the Republicans swept the state, electing the governor, a majority of the
state legislature, and 18 of the state’s 24 members of the House of
Representatives. This efficient organization is prepared to win the state for
the Republican ticket in 1964. But it wants no pre-convention contest. * Its
reason for this is that if Goldwater is entered in the primary there may be
other contestants, perhaps Gov. Rockefeller. This would involve an intra-party
fight. Such a fight would consume money and resources badly needed to win in
the election itself. It would also engender differences within the party. Since
Cleveland and some other cities are Democratic, the Kennedy ticket will be very
hard to beat. If the state is lost to President Kennedy, at least three or four
incumbent Republican members of the House of Representatives will be defeated.
Hence, a contest for the delegation would be a prelude to disaster. Reproduced
with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without
permission.

==================================================

Title: Tamper With an Image?: ANOTHER FRONTIER
Date: 1963-11-25
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **PERSPECTIVE** **Tamper With an Image?** *by Raymond Moley* IN RECENT weeks some admirers of Sen. Barry Goldwater have been complaining that their favorite has been too free with offhand opinions on large issues. Liberal Republicans hope that these comments of his may prevent his nomination. And Democrats are using them in behalf of Mr. Kennedy's re-election. The President, it is believed, scored perceptibly when he said in a press conference: "I think it would be unwise at this time to answer or reply to Senator Goldwater. I'm confident he will be making many charges... in the coming months. And in addition, he himself has had a busy week selling TVA, and... suggesting that military commanders overseas be permitted to use nuclear weapons; attacking the President of Bolivia while he was here in the United States; involving himself in the Greek elections. So, I thought that it really would be not fair for me this week to reply to him." Democratic commentators have followed this line of attack. And while General Eisenhower said that Goldwater would be a "safe" candidate and President, he said that the Arizona senator is "impulsive." The precisionist in me, perhaps because of my years as a schoolteacher and writer, tends to worry about any public figure's offhand comments. But a realism born of long observation of the habits of the electorate discounts this worry and these attacks. **ANOTHER FRONTIER** Goldwater's popularity is built of stern stuff and has not been shaken by his casual remarks. He has always been free in his comments on the issues, but along with these his general ideology and his frankness have won him rapidly mounting support among millions of Americans. They are not likely to split hairs about their favorite. Vast numbers of Americans agree with his comments. Precision- ists may quarrel over details, but an electorate does not. It never has. It never will. Not only has Goldwater become a symbol of protest against a regime and a trend of policy, but his personality has awakened sentiments that lie deep in the American spirit. This has resulted not only in an intellectual but an emotional choice of Goldwater as a leader. An electorate wants a sharp and understandable contrast when it must make a decision between candidates. Fine-spun arguments between a tweedledum and a tweedledee evoke only apathy and indifference. We have seen that in elections when only half the electorate has chosen to vote. I hate to use the concept of "images" in describing the Goldwater- Kennedy contrast, but the President's preoccupation with image-making has invited it. No one has expressed this contrast better than Chalmers H. Roberts, writing in The Washington Post: "Goldwater, many seem to feel, represents the wide-open spaces, the last frontier, the untrammeled American, in contrast to the Kennedy image of Harvard, big-city political bossism, high living, family high jinks, and a determination to regiment every aspect of American life." **PERIL IN CHANGE** But as Roberts so perceptively points out further in his article, Gold- water is no mere embodiment of that primitive West that so many millions see in their television programs. The Arizona which is the Goldwater background is as sophisticated as the West Coast, Chicago, and New York. To Goldwater, the jerry-built national welfarism and tax structure of the 1930s are in need of modernization. He would not and does not advocate abolishing government help to those who need it. But he would bring those programs into line with modern methods and capabilities. As a candidate, and as President if elected, he would be himself. It would be fatal, now that he is a serious contender, to change his character. That has happened with other candidates in the past, with disastrous results. Those who are concerned about Goldwater's speeches up to now will see, as the months pass, the unfolding of a firm and understandable program. He recognizes the need for expert help. In this process there will be no "new" Goldwater, but a real alternative to what the Kennedy Administration is giving us now. *Newsweek, November 25, 1963*
Full Context: **PERSPECTIVE** **Tamper With an Image?** *by Raymond Moley* IN RECENT weeks
some admirers of Sen. Barry Goldwater have been complaining that their favorite
has been too free with offhand opinions on large issues. Liberal Republicans
hope that these comments of his may prevent his nomination. And Democrats are
using them in behalf of Mr. Kennedy's re-election. The President, it is
believed, scored perceptibly when he said in a press conference: "I think it
would be unwise at this time to answer or reply to Senator Goldwater. I'm
confident he will be making many charges... in the coming months. And in
addition, he himself has had a busy week selling TVA, and... suggesting that
military commanders overseas be permitted to use nuclear weapons; attacking the
President of Bolivia while he was here in the United States; involving himself
in the Greek elections. So, I thought that it really would be not fair for me
this week to reply to him." Democratic commentators have followed this line of
attack. And while General Eisenhower said that Goldwater would be a "safe"
candidate and President, he said that the Arizona senator is "impulsive." The
precisionist in me, perhaps because of my years as a schoolteacher and writer,
tends to worry about any public figure's offhand comments. But a realism born
of long observation of the habits of the electorate discounts this worry and
these attacks. **ANOTHER FRONTIER** Goldwater's popularity is built of stern
stuff and has not been shaken by his casual remarks. He has always been free in
his comments on the issues, but along with these his general ideology and his
frankness have won him rapidly mounting support among millions of Americans.
They are not likely to split hairs about their favorite. Vast numbers of
Americans agree with his comments. Precision- ists may quarrel over details,
but an electorate does not. It never has. It never will. Not only has Goldwater
become a symbol of protest against a regime and a trend of policy, but his
personality has awakened sentiments that lie deep in the American spirit. This
has resulted not only in an intellectual but an emotional choice of Goldwater
as a leader. An electorate wants a sharp and understandable contrast when it
must make a decision between candidates. Fine-spun arguments between a
tweedledum and a tweedledee evoke only apathy and indifference. We have seen
that in elections when only half the electorate has chosen to vote. I hate to
use the concept of "images" in describing the Goldwater- Kennedy contrast, but
the President's preoccupation with image-making has invited it. No one has
expressed this contrast better than Chalmers H. Roberts, writing in The
Washington Post: "Goldwater, many seem to feel, represents the wide-open
spaces, the last frontier, the untrammeled American, in contrast to the Kennedy
image of Harvard, big-city political bossism, high living, family high jinks,
and a determination to regiment every aspect of American life." **PERIL IN
CHANGE** But as Roberts so perceptively points out further in his article,
Gold- water is no mere embodiment of that primitive West that so many millions
see in their television programs. The Arizona which is the Goldwater background
is as sophisticated as the West Coast, Chicago, and New York. To Goldwater, the
jerry-built national welfarism and tax structure of the 1930s are in need of
modernization. He would not and does not advocate abolishing government help to
those who need it. But he would bring those programs into line with modern
methods and capabilities. As a candidate, and as President if elected, he would
be himself. It would be fatal, now that he is a serious contender, to change
his character. That has happened with other candidates in the past, with
disastrous results. Those who are concerned about Goldwater's speeches up to
now will see, as the months pass, the unfolding of a firm and understandable
program. He recognizes the need for expert help. In this process there will be
no "new" Goldwater, but a real alternative to what the Kennedy Administration
is giving us now. *Newsweek, November 25, 1963*

==================================================

Title: Goldwater's Proposals for TVA Would End 'Creeping Socialism'
Date: 1963-11-26
Publication: LAT
Text: Goldwater's Proposals for TVA Would End 'Creeping Socialism' BY RAYMOND MOLEY Sen. Barry Goldwater seems to have sent a tremor over the land by suggesting that the Ten- nèssée Valley Authority be liquidated. The full statement of his plan is wholly reasonable, but the very suggestion of tamper- ing with this institution troubles his friends and excites his enemies. Gen. Dwight D. Eisen- hower who, as I remem- her, called the TVA "creeping socialism" now furrows his brow because any candidate would touch what has become "an emotional way of life." The TVA is just that. Schools and colleges in which the curriculums show sad neglect of basic American history and An- glo-American political in- stitutions arrange visits to the valley for whole clas- ses. There, in the presence of roaring generators, fall- ing waters, and black smoke, every head is bowed before what is miscalled "démocracy in action." ★ In the 1932 campaign Franklin D. Roosevelt merely said that he fa- vored federal develop- ment of the World War I installation at Muscle Shoals on the Tennessee River. The vast paterna- lism that emerged the next year was the idea of Sen. George Norris. When Roosevelt was approached with the idea that, after the federal government had built the dam and generators, the power should be sold to the tax-paying, investor- owned power companies in the area, he said, "See George Norris. It's his baby." The incomplete installa- tion at Muscle Shoals had been built during World War I to provide nitrogen for war use. It was not intended to be used as a monopolistic government business. But when Mr. Roosevelt launched the project in 1933 he said it "would lead to complete national planning.. in- volving many states and the future lives and wel- fare of millions." Four years later, Mr. Roosevelt was so enthusi- astic about this "baby" that he proposed that the whole nation be marked out in valley authorities which would, in fact, large- ly supersede the states. But Congress killed propo- sals for a Missouri Valley Authority and a Columbia Valley Administration. The basic TVA act itself is a curious document. It required that the mem- bers of the five man governing board should be in sympathy with the purposes of the institution purposes which in their aggregate were the crea- tion of a vast welfare state. A member could be removed for "contumacy," an old legal term which meant, as Roosevelt used it, disagreeing with the President or with fellow members. The constitutional justi- fication was alleged to be flood control, reforesta- tion, navagation and other federal concerns. As it stands, the TVA is in reality a government within and largely inde- pendent of the federal government. Many of its activities are duplications of functions already pro- vided for in federal de- partments. Federal money was lent at 1% interest. And recently the. TVA was empowered to issue its own bonds, a practice which was soundly con- demned by the comptrol- ler general of the United States. This would enable the TVA to expand far beyond its original boun- daries. Despite the vast expen- ditures for the alleged purpose of navigation, there has been no com- mensurate increase in river-born commerce. And if there should be, it would greatly increase the dis- tress of the railroads. As far as flood control is concerned, the Army en- gineers estimated that the damage from floods would normally equal in cost only half the amount spent to prevent them. ★ The monopoly almost immediately drove the pri- vate power companies from the area. No busi- ness can compete with a federal subsidy. Goldwater's suggestions are that such functions as are duplications of acti- vities in other depart- ments should be turned over to those departments. Also, he says that TVA activities which have no counterparts should be sold and put under strict government supervision as to rates, etc. No one in the valley, Goldwater ex- plains, would lose any of the services they already have. And government would be gotten out of matters which should nev- er have been assumed.. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Goldwater's Proposals for TVA Would End 'Creeping Socialism' BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Sen. Barry Goldwater seems to have sent a tremor over the land by suggesting
that the Ten- nèssée Valley Authority be liquidated. The full statement of his
plan is wholly reasonable, but the very suggestion of tamper- ing with this
institution troubles his friends and excites his enemies. Gen. Dwight D. Eisen-
hower who, as I remem- her, called the TVA "creeping socialism" now furrows his
brow because any candidate would touch what has become "an emotional way of
life." The TVA is just that. Schools and colleges in which the curriculums show
sad neglect of basic American history and An- glo-American political in-
stitutions arrange visits to the valley for whole clas- ses. There, in the
presence of roaring generators, fall- ing waters, and black smoke, every head
is bowed before what is miscalled "démocracy in action." ★ In the 1932 campaign
Franklin D. Roosevelt merely said that he fa- vored federal develop- ment of
the World War I installation at Muscle Shoals on the Tennessee River. The vast
paterna- lism that emerged the next year was the idea of Sen. George Norris.
When Roosevelt was approached with the idea that, after the federal government
had built the dam and generators, the power should be sold to the tax-paying,
investor- owned power companies in the area, he said, "See George Norris. It's
his baby." The incomplete installa- tion at Muscle Shoals had been built during
World War I to provide nitrogen for war use. It was not intended to be used as
a monopolistic government business. But when Mr. Roosevelt launched the project
in 1933 he said it "would lead to complete national planning.. in- volving many
states and the future lives and wel- fare of millions." Four years later, Mr.
Roosevelt was so enthusi- astic about this "baby" that he proposed that the
whole nation be marked out in valley authorities which would, in fact, large-
ly supersede the states. But Congress killed propo- sals for a Missouri Valley
Authority and a Columbia Valley Administration. The basic TVA act itself is a
curious document. It required that the mem- bers of the five man governing
board should be in sympathy with the purposes of the institution purposes which
in their aggregate were the crea- tion of a vast welfare state. A member could
be removed for "contumacy," an old legal term which meant, as Roosevelt used
it, disagreeing with the President or with fellow members. The constitutional
justi- fication was alleged to be flood control, reforesta- tion, navagation
and other federal concerns. As it stands, the TVA is in reality a government
within and largely inde- pendent of the federal government. Many of its
activities are duplications of functions already pro- vided for in federal de-
partments. Federal money was lent at 1% interest. And recently the. TVA was
empowered to issue its own bonds, a practice which was soundly con- demned by
the comptrol- ler general of the United States. This would enable the TVA to
expand far beyond its original boun- daries. Despite the vast expen- ditures
for the alleged purpose of navigation, there has been no com- mensurate
increase in river-born commerce. And if there should be, it would greatly
increase the dis- tress of the railroads. As far as flood control is concerned,
the Army en- gineers estimated that the damage from floods would normally equal
in cost only half the amount spent to prevent them. ★ The monopoly almost
immediately drove the pri- vate power companies from the area. No busi- ness
can compete with a federal subsidy. Goldwater's suggestions are that such
functions as are duplications of acti- vities in other depart- ments should be
turned over to those departments. Also, he says that TVA activities which have
no counterparts should be sold and put under strict government supervision as
to rates, etc. No one in the valley, Goldwater ex- plains, would lose any of
the services they already have. And government would be gotten out of matters
which should nev- er have been assumed.. Reproduced with permission of the
copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: Goldwater's Decision: POPULAR DEMAND
Date: 1964-01-13
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **PERSPECTIVE** **Goldwater's Decision** by Raymond Moley IF BARRY GOLDWATER had the Presidency in mind twelve years ago when he left behind the pleasant life of a successful businessman and entered the arena of politics, the evidence fails to support it. There have been many perennial seekers of the Presidency in our history, and certain rituals have developed which border on superstition. The successful aspirant must have a "base" in a large, pivotal state. A governorship is fine, since governors have to take few, if any, positions on national issues. The aspirant should also have something of an organization to create an "image." He must suit his views to the shifty winds of popular opinion. If he serves in Congress, he must not oppose the President of his party. He must be an orator of sorts. And he must take himself seriously and be totally devoid of humor. And so considered on the basis of what is called "availability," Goldwater is deficient. His "base" is a small state. He can bring from that state pathetically few delegates. He is no arm-waving, ear-splitting orator. He has grievously and, it seems, permanently offended a most popular President of his own party. In the Senate he voted almost alone against critical measures. He maintained no "image-making" staff. And he presented himself as a conservative ten years ago when that word had no repute at all. **POPULAR DEMAND** He also has made speeches before groups with no political potential. Many of them were young people with no votes. He made no appeal as an "intellectual." He offended powerful labor leaders. He curried favor with no special-interest minorities. And he stoutly denied being an "independent" and was a loyal Republican party man. But somehow, through processes in public psychology that defy analysis, he has gained a massive following all over the nation. He has awakened a new and young generation to the realities of politics. College and school auditoriums have been jammed to the doors and into the streets for his talks. Goldwater clubs and, later, a vital Draft-Goldwater movement have emerged over the nation. Inevitably, this meant a demand that he become a candidate for President. There was a wild demonstration for him at the Republican convention in 1960. He quelled this by a moving appeal to support the foreordained ticket. And during the campaign that followed, he made scores of speeches supporting the Republican candidates, even where the chances of winning were remote. **CENTER OF HOPES** Thus he has won the warm support not only of people generally but of Republican political leaders in a great many states. And because of his efforts, a growing two-party system has emerged in the South. As Goldwater faced the demand that he offer himself as a candidate in 1964, grave and moving considerations must have crossed his mind. His life in Washington and at home in Arizona has been enjoyable and stimulating. He is at home in the Senate, for he deeply respects the legislative process. And there is no reason to believe that he could not continue indefinitely in the Senate. As a candidate he must face ten months of grueling campaigning with incredible demands upon him and also the slings and arrows of bitter criticism. Beyond that, if elected, lies hand-to-hand grappling with vast, unanswered problems. The glamour and perquisites of the Presidency have little attraction for him. But he has been and is the center of the hopes and aspirations of countless thousands of Americans. For he is the personification of a great demand for change in the Federal establishment. He believes that this movement, if it is to succeed, must be drawn within the Republican Party and win its objectives at the polls. The possibility of electing more members of Congress who share his views depends upon who is elected President. And no one who is willing to be fair, regardless of differences in party and ideology, can deny his concern for the future of his country. The values he would seek lie far beyond the possession of exalted office. These considerations are paramount. Newsweek, January 13, 1964
Full Context: **PERSPECTIVE** **Goldwater's Decision** by Raymond Moley IF BARRY GOLDWATER
had the Presidency in mind twelve years ago when he left behind the pleasant
life of a successful businessman and entered the arena of politics, the
evidence fails to support it. There have been many perennial seekers of the
Presidency in our history, and certain rituals have developed which border on
superstition. The successful aspirant must have a "base" in a large, pivotal
state. A governorship is fine, since governors have to take few, if any,
positions on national issues. The aspirant should also have something of an
organization to create an "image." He must suit his views to the shifty winds
of popular opinion. If he serves in Congress, he must not oppose the President
of his party. He must be an orator of sorts. And he must take himself seriously
and be totally devoid of humor. And so considered on the basis of what is
called "availability," Goldwater is deficient. His "base" is a small state. He
can bring from that state pathetically few delegates. He is no arm-waving,
ear-splitting orator. He has grievously and, it seems, permanently offended a
most popular President of his own party. In the Senate he voted almost alone
against critical measures. He maintained no "image-making" staff. And he
presented himself as a conservative ten years ago when that word had no repute
at all. **POPULAR DEMAND** He also has made speeches before groups with no
political potential. Many of them were young people with no votes. He made no
appeal as an "intellectual." He offended powerful labor leaders. He curried
favor with no special-interest minorities. And he stoutly denied being an
"independent" and was a loyal Republican party man. But somehow, through
processes in public psychology that defy analysis, he has gained a massive
following all over the nation. He has awakened a new and young generation to
the realities of politics. College and school auditoriums have been jammed to
the doors and into the streets for his talks. Goldwater clubs and, later, a
vital Draft-Goldwater movement have emerged over the nation. Inevitably, this
meant a demand that he become a candidate for President. There was a wild
demonstration for him at the Republican convention in 1960. He quelled this by
a moving appeal to support the foreordained ticket. And during the campaign
that followed, he made scores of speeches supporting the Republican candidates,
even where the chances of winning were remote. **CENTER OF HOPES** Thus he has
won the warm support not only of people generally but of Republican political
leaders in a great many states. And because of his efforts, a growing two-party
system has emerged in the South. As Goldwater faced the demand that he offer
himself as a candidate in 1964, grave and moving considerations must have
crossed his mind. His life in Washington and at home in Arizona has been
enjoyable and stimulating. He is at home in the Senate, for he deeply respects
the legislative process. And there is no reason to believe that he could not
continue indefinitely in the Senate. As a candidate he must face ten months of
grueling campaigning with incredible demands upon him and also the slings and
arrows of bitter criticism. Beyond that, if elected, lies hand-to-hand
grappling with vast, unanswered problems. The glamour and perquisites of the
Presidency have little attraction for him. But he has been and is the center of
the hopes and aspirations of countless thousands of Americans. For he is the
personification of a great demand for change in the Federal establishment. He
believes that this movement, if it is to succeed, must be drawn within the
Republican Party and win its objectives at the polls. The possibility of
electing more members of Congress who share his views depends upon who is
elected President. And no one who is willing to be fair, regardless of
differences in party and ideology, can deny his concern for the future of his
country. The values he would seek lie far beyond the possession of exalted
office. These considerations are paramount. Newsweek, January 13, 1964

==================================================

Title: Television to Date Is a Huge Political Flop
Date: 1964-01-14
Publication: LAT
Text: Television to Date Is a Huge Political Flop BY RAYMOND MOLEY It is about time for the television industry to live up to its loud claims that it is a great boon to political life. So far, it has demon- strated gross ineptitude, amateurishness, and not a little prejudice. A few examples will illustrate this abysmal fail- ure of a new medium to live up to its billing. On Sunday, Jan. 5, Bar- ry Goldwater was inter- viewed on "Meet the Press." The Arizona sena- tor had just announced his candidacy for the Pres- idential nomination. This announcement had been widely anticipated for several days in the press. And so on this nationally televised half- hour millions were expect- ed to tune in to see the candidate and hear the first public statements in a campaign which will occu- py the stage for months to come. ★ The master of the show and principal interlocutor, Lawrence Spivak, and Ned Brooks, the modera- tor, are able and respected journalists. Spivak's ques- tions are always carefully considered and highly per- tinent. Brooks presides with grace and intel- ligence. They know their politics. But the three additional reporters selected to ques- tion the senator were relatively unknown and, if we may judge from their performance on this occa- sion, possessed of about enough political wisdom to serve as precinct commit- teemen. I could name 25 journa- lists of high repute and experience who could have made the affair a really distinguished pre- sentation of vital issues. The purpose of the pro- gram, unless I wholly misunderstand it, was to make Goldwater's views better known and under- stood. The result could not have been satisfactory either to Goldwater's friends or opponents. I grant that the senator himself failed to avail himself of this opportunity to project his ideas to millions. The question I am raising is the failure of the managers of the show. This is not the first time that television has made a mess of a political pro- gram or occasion. Nearly 12 years ago, Gen. Eisenhower's accep- tance speech in Abilene, Kan., was televised. It was a sorry performance. It was staged out of doors. There was some rain, and the pages of the general's speech fluttered in the wind. Behind the speaker ap- peared acres of parked cars, with people moving about among them. Dan Thornton stood at the speaker's side with a big Texas hat, bellowing in the loudest hog-calling manner. In that campaign and in 1956 viewers saw a tired, listless Adlai Stevenson reading half-hour speeches. These won no votes, but the networks won fat fees for the time consumed. But the crowning exam- ple of TV incompetence was in the staging of the Kennedy-Nixon debates in 1960. The stage looked like that of a summer theater in the hayloft of a barn. The two debaters were awkwardly placed, stand- ing behind rickety po- diums. ★ Finally, there was the dreadful computer show on election night, 1960. Before thousands of people in the West had voted, these brainless, faceless machines were spewing out "odds" on Kennedy of 333-1, al- though the final result was razor thin and was not known for 16 hours. So far, television has been the most unfortunate addition to our political life since free government was born. And judging from the 1964 beginning, it will be little better this time. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Television to Date Is a Huge Political Flop BY RAYMOND MOLEY It is about time
for the television industry to live up to its loud claims that it is a great
boon to political life. So far, it has demon- strated gross ineptitude,
amateurishness, and not a little prejudice. A few examples will illustrate this
abysmal fail- ure of a new medium to live up to its billing. On Sunday, Jan. 5,
Bar- ry Goldwater was inter- viewed on "Meet the Press." The Arizona sena- tor
had just announced his candidacy for the Pres- idential nomination. This
announcement had been widely anticipated for several days in the press. And so
on this nationally televised half- hour millions were expect- ed to tune in to
see the candidate and hear the first public statements in a campaign which will
occu- py the stage for months to come. ★ The master of the show and principal
interlocutor, Lawrence Spivak, and Ned Brooks, the modera- tor, are able and
respected journalists. Spivak's ques- tions are always carefully considered and
highly per- tinent. Brooks presides with grace and intel- ligence. They know
their politics. But the three additional reporters selected to ques- tion the
senator were relatively unknown and, if we may judge from their performance on
this occa- sion, possessed of about enough political wisdom to serve as
precinct commit- teemen. I could name 25 journa- lists of high repute and
experience who could have made the affair a really distinguished pre- sentation
of vital issues. The purpose of the pro- gram, unless I wholly misunderstand
it, was to make Goldwater's views better known and under- stood. The result
could not have been satisfactory either to Goldwater's friends or opponents. I
grant that the senator himself failed to avail himself of this opportunity to
project his ideas to millions. The question I am raising is the failure of the
managers of the show. This is not the first time that television has made a
mess of a political pro- gram or occasion. Nearly 12 years ago, Gen.
Eisenhower's accep- tance speech in Abilene, Kan., was televised. It was a
sorry performance. It was staged out of doors. There was some rain, and the
pages of the general's speech fluttered in the wind. Behind the speaker ap-
peared acres of parked cars, with people moving about among them. Dan Thornton
stood at the speaker's side with a big Texas hat, bellowing in the loudest
hog-calling manner. In that campaign and in 1956 viewers saw a tired, listless
Adlai Stevenson reading half-hour speeches. These won no votes, but the
networks won fat fees for the time consumed. But the crowning exam- ple of TV
incompetence was in the staging of the Kennedy-Nixon debates in 1960. The stage
looked like that of a summer theater in the hayloft of a barn. The two debaters
were awkwardly placed, stand- ing behind rickety po- diums. ★ Finally, there
was the dreadful computer show on election night, 1960. Before thousands of
people in the West had voted, these brainless, faceless machines were spewing
out "odds" on Kennedy of 333-1, al- though the final result was razor thin and
was not known for 16 hours. So far, television has been the most unfortunate
addition to our political life since free government was born. And judging from
the 1964 beginning, it will be little better this time. Reproduced with
permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without
permission.

==================================================

Title: Barry Goldwater and His Critics
Date: 1964-02-18
Publication: LAT
Text: Barry Goldwater and His Critics BY RAYMOND MOLEY There are certain fac- tors connected with the widely reported decline in the fortunes of Sen. Barry Goldwater which some of his critics might well con- sider. These critics that I have in mind are not liberal Democrats who have opposed Goldwater and his ideas for years. No. These new critics are former admirers who havė raised doubts about him since Nov. 22. Some are conservative people who find fault with the way he is campaigning and with some of his reported statements. Some are Republicans who for the last four years have been calling for a clear and positive choice be- tween the parties in 1964. Others are organization party leaders, in public and out, who are looking for a less "controversial" candidate. And some are businessmen who have been taken in by President Johnson's corny platitudes and his phony gestures toward economy. All these "summer sol- diers" and sunshine pa- triots" have in the past been applauding sen- timents identical with those that Goldwater is uttering now. Within the circle of critics there are many Republicans in of- fice who have been the beneficiaries over the years of Goldwater's tire- less campaigning for them and for the Republican Party to which they be- long. These people should realize that it was inevita- ble that some time before the convention in July the earlier steady rise in Gold- water sentiment would level off or take a tempor- ary dip. This has happened in other years and to other public figures before George Gallup was born and before polling had become a thriving indus- try. In 1892, when Pres- ident Harrison was defeat- ed for re-election, Gov. William McKinley of Ohio was the most popular Republican in the nation and seemed to be on his way to the Presidency. But a year or so later, he found himself penniless because he had innocently endorsed a friend's notes. He was ridiculed from coast to coast. But his fortunes recovered and he Goldwater was nominated and elect- ed. The occasion for the inevitable dip in Goldwa- ter's popularity was the death of President Kenne- dy. Goldwater critics sprang up everywhere, and now everything he says is lint-picked. His decision when he announced his candidacy, however, was that he would avoid the double- talk which is the habit of candidates and continue to speak his mind as before. He was and is more concerned with the stimu- lation of conservative thinking than he is with getting the nomination. His supporters will have to attend to the mustering of a majority at the July convention. Because he is mainly concerned with a Republican victory in November, he is not at- tacking any of his rivals for the nomination, an example which Gov. Nel- son A. Rockefeller might well emulate. For the party must live, and its members should support the nominee. Moreover, some of the statements for which Goldwater has been criti- cized are, when closely examined, sound and true. There are two exam- ples. He said that our missiles are unreliable. This is true when it is considered that with the development of missiles the more tested and accur- ate manned aircraft have been neglected. Verification of Goldwa- ter's position on this has since been supplied by scientists and such milita- ry experts as Hanson Baldwin and Air Force Chief of Staff Curtis E. LeMay. Gen. Eisenhower won no laurels as a logician when he said in criticism of Goldwater that our mis- siles are the best in the world. That was merely begging the question. It was reported that Goldwater called for a blockade of Cuba after the Guantanamo incident. And so the State Depart- ment cried out that a blockade is "an act of war." But Goldwater did not advocate an act of war. He said: "The long-discussed blockade of subversion from Cuba and the block- ade of military materials going into Cuba must be finally and fully applied." Later he said that such a blockade would extend to "anything that is going in there" which Cuba can use "to maintain commu- nism and to spread it through this hemisphere." If this had been done when the threat appeared in 1961, there would have been no missile crisis in 1962 and infinitely fewer upsets in Latin America. We cannot have a candi- date with whom every Republican can agree on every detail. But if the two-party system is to operate, a clear choice is needed. Goldwater is sim- ply asking whether the Republican Party wants such a choice. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Barry Goldwater and His Critics BY RAYMOND MOLEY There are certain fac- tors
connected with the widely reported decline in the fortunes of Sen. Barry
Goldwater which some of his critics might well con- sider. These critics that I
have in mind are not liberal Democrats who have opposed Goldwater and his ideas
for years. No. These new critics are former admirers who havė raised doubts
about him since Nov. 22. Some are conservative people who find fault with the
way he is campaigning and with some of his reported statements. Some are
Republicans who for the last four years have been calling for a clear and
positive choice be- tween the parties in 1964. Others are organization party
leaders, in public and out, who are looking for a less "controversial"
candidate. And some are businessmen who have been taken in by President
Johnson's corny platitudes and his phony gestures toward economy. All these
"summer sol- diers" and sunshine pa- triots" have in the past been applauding
sen- timents identical with those that Goldwater is uttering now. Within the
circle of critics there are many Republicans in of- fice who have been the
beneficiaries over the years of Goldwater's tire- less campaigning for them and
for the Republican Party to which they be- long. These people should realize
that it was inevita- ble that some time before the convention in July the
earlier steady rise in Gold- water sentiment would level off or take a tempor-
ary dip. This has happened in other years and to other public figures before
George Gallup was born and before polling had become a thriving indus- try. In
1892, when Pres- ident Harrison was defeat- ed for re-election, Gov. William
McKinley of Ohio was the most popular Republican in the nation and seemed to be
on his way to the Presidency. But a year or so later, he found himself
penniless because he had innocently endorsed a friend's notes. He was ridiculed
from coast to coast. But his fortunes recovered and he Goldwater was nominated
and elect- ed. The occasion for the inevitable dip in Goldwa- ter's popularity
was the death of President Kenne- dy. Goldwater critics sprang up everywhere,
and now everything he says is lint-picked. His decision when he announced his
candidacy, however, was that he would avoid the double- talk which is the habit
of candidates and continue to speak his mind as before. He was and is more
concerned with the stimu- lation of conservative thinking than he is with
getting the nomination. His supporters will have to attend to the mustering of
a majority at the July convention. Because he is mainly concerned with a
Republican victory in November, he is not at- tacking any of his rivals for the
nomination, an example which Gov. Nel- son A. Rockefeller might well emulate.
For the party must live, and its members should support the nominee. Moreover,
some of the statements for which Goldwater has been criti- cized are, when
closely examined, sound and true. There are two exam- ples. He said that our
missiles are unreliable. This is true when it is considered that with the
development of missiles the more tested and accur- ate manned aircraft have
been neglected. Verification of Goldwa- ter's position on this has since been
supplied by scientists and such milita- ry experts as Hanson Baldwin and Air
Force Chief of Staff Curtis E. LeMay. Gen. Eisenhower won no laurels as a
logician when he said in criticism of Goldwater that our mis- siles are the
best in the world. That was merely begging the question. It was reported that
Goldwater called for a blockade of Cuba after the Guantanamo incident. And so
the State Depart- ment cried out that a blockade is "an act of war." But
Goldwater did not advocate an act of war. He said: "The long-discussed blockade
of subversion from Cuba and the block- ade of military materials going into
Cuba must be finally and fully applied." Later he said that such a blockade
would extend to "anything that is going in there" which Cuba can use "to
maintain commu- nism and to spread it through this hemisphere." If this had
been done when the threat appeared in 1961, there would have been no missile
crisis in 1962 and infinitely fewer upsets in Latin America. We cannot have a
candi- date with whom every Republican can agree on every detail. But if the
two-party system is to operate, a clear choice is needed. Goldwater is sim- ply
asking whether the Republican Party wants such a choice. Reproduced with
permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without
permission.

==================================================

Title: Credit Due Goldwater for GOP Rise in South
Date: 1964-03-17
Publication: LAT
Text: Credit Due Goldwater for GOP Rise in South BY RAYMOND MOLEY Whatever may be Barry Goldwater's future, and some of those who are writing him off may be surprised before the end of the year one of his services to the Republican Party and the nation cannot be ignored. More than anyone else, he deserves credit for the rise of a two-party system in the South. Ten years of indefaitable crusading for conservative principles have given shape, direction, and hope to countless people, mostly young people, in the South who have been unhappy over the years with the take-it- or-leave-it solid Democratic Party in those states. Since traditionally the Southern voter has had to consider personalities rather than parties, it took a strong and attractive personality to become the basis of a Republican Party. Goldwater supplied that necessity. He became the symbol of deliverance from one-party rule. * For that reason, the new and growing Republican leadership is generally identical with the Goldwater- or-President movement. However, it cannot be assured that if Goldwater should be eliminated as a Presidential contender the new Republican Party in the South would disappear. For the principle would remain, and the party machinery to give it implementation would still grow and in some states take over the government. After a week of study and observation in South Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama, I am unable to assess the present status of Goldwater sentiment among voters. But I can say positively that no poll can accurately show that status. It is true that the enthusiasm for Goldwater is somewhat less than it was when I visited the same states 11 months ago. But he had so much momentum then that the letdown after the death of President Kennedy still leaves him the outstanding favorite among politically minded people. The acquisition of Gold- water delegates provides something of more statistical significance than the measurement of opinion. And here Goldwater's fortunes are growing. John E. Grenier, the capable Republican state chairman in Alabama, has been charged with gathering delegates pledged or Moley favorable to Goldwater in the 11 southern states. The business of selecting delegates is going on at this time in all these states. Grenier, only 33 years of age, has a special genius for organizational work. Within the next few weeks all the delegates from these states will be chosen, and most will be committed or pledged to Goldwater. Some have already been selected. Grenier estimates that of the total of 279 representing the 11 states in Grenier's jurisdiction, a minimum of 250 will vote for Goldwater on the first ballot in San Francisco, and most of these will be prepared to stick until released or until Goldwater is nominated. * I believe that this estimate involves little wishful thinking. For Grenier is a very realistic man. There are some sticky situations in delegate selection in Florida and Arkansas. But North Carolina is safely for Goldwater, except for perhaps one or two delegates. Some trouble may arise in central Tennessee. But South Carolina, Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas are safe. The result in New Hampshire will have little effect upon this strength from the South. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Credit Due Goldwater for GOP Rise in South BY RAYMOND MOLEY Whatever may be
Barry Goldwater's future, and some of those who are writing him off may be
surprised before the end of the year one of his services to the Republican
Party and the nation cannot be ignored. More than anyone else, he deserves
credit for the rise of a two-party system in the South. Ten years of
indefaitable crusading for conservative principles have given shape, direction,
and hope to countless people, mostly young people, in the South who have been
unhappy over the years with the take-it- or-leave-it solid Democratic Party in
those states. Since traditionally the Southern voter has had to consider
personalities rather than parties, it took a strong and attractive personality
to become the basis of a Republican Party. Goldwater supplied that necessity.
He became the symbol of deliverance from one-party rule. * For that reason, the
new and growing Republican leadership is generally identical with the
Goldwater- or-President movement. However, it cannot be assured that if
Goldwater should be eliminated as a Presidential contender the new Republican
Party in the South would disappear. For the principle would remain, and the
party machinery to give it implementation would still grow and in some states
take over the government. After a week of study and observation in South
Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama, I am unable to assess the present status of
Goldwater sentiment among voters. But I can say positively that no poll can
accurately show that status. It is true that the enthusiasm for Goldwater is
somewhat less than it was when I visited the same states 11 months ago. But he
had so much momentum then that the letdown after the death of President Kennedy
still leaves him the outstanding favorite among politically minded people. The
acquisition of Gold- water delegates provides something of more statistical
significance than the measurement of opinion. And here Goldwater's fortunes are
growing. John E. Grenier, the capable Republican state chairman in Alabama, has
been charged with gathering delegates pledged or Moley favorable to Goldwater
in the 11 southern states. The business of selecting delegates is going on at
this time in all these states. Grenier, only 33 years of age, has a special
genius for organizational work. Within the next few weeks all the delegates
from these states will be chosen, and most will be committed or pledged to
Goldwater. Some have already been selected. Grenier estimates that of the total
of 279 representing the 11 states in Grenier's jurisdiction, a minimum of 250
will vote for Goldwater on the first ballot in San Francisco, and most of these
will be prepared to stick until released or until Goldwater is nominated. * I
believe that this estimate involves little wishful thinking. For Grenier is a
very realistic man. There are some sticky situations in delegate selection in
Florida and Arkansas. But North Carolina is safely for Goldwater, except for
perhaps one or two delegates. Some trouble may arise in central Tennessee. But
South Carolina, Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas are safe. The result in New
Hampshire will have little effect upon this strength from the South. Reproduced
with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without
permission.

==================================================

Title: Let's Abandon Folksy Approach in Campaign
Date: 1964-03-24
Publication: LAT
Text: Let's Abandon Folksy Approach in Campaign BY RAYMOND MOLEY The New Hampshire primary campaign offers little enlightenment so far as this year's Presidential campaign is concerned. But it teaches a very se- vere lesson in what is called the art of politics. This might be pondered by candidates, political man- agers, and the voting pub- lic generally. The method of cam- paigning adopted by Sen. Barry Goldwater and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller failed in the pragmatic test. It didn't work. A silent man on the other side of the world won. His cause was carried on by subordinate workers on the spot. The routine adopted by Rockefeller and Goldwa- ter with the voters—and with many who were not voters at all—was face-to- face and palm-to-palm. Detached austerity with a gesture of dignity won in the Granite State. Convi- viality failed. Goldwater would have done better if he had remained on the Senate floor or in the patio of his home in Phoenix. And his luster would have been maintained if, as some friends advised, he had skipped that primary entirely. This wretched pattern of cadging votes was ap- parently set by Rockefel- ler. For in two campaigns for governor of New York he used it freely. But since his two op- ponents on those occasions were weak candidates and Rockefeller money flowed like water, it's doubtful that the walkie-talkie, handshaking, and eating and drinking (coffee) busi- ness had much effect upon New York voters. Rockefeller, however, didn't originate the folksy approach. It has been used for generations by candi- dates for sheriff, for coun- cilman, and for the keep- ership of the dog pound. It is not uncommon with candidates for Congress. The Rockefeller routine goes far beyond handshak- ing and broad smiles. His has been a manifestation of gastronomic prowess. In his New York campaigns for governor, in order to show that his wealth had not spoiled him, he ate freely of pizzas, blintzes, bagels, hot dogs and ham- burgers. In New Hampshire the menu was somewhat dif- ferent. There were hot dogs and hamburgers, but also ice cream sodas and gallons of coffee. By necessity, Goldwater somewhat awkwardly fol- lowed Rockefeller's exam- ple. I don't know whether the Arizona senator ate chili con carne when he was running for office in his state. But in New Hampshire the hands he had to grasp were colder. As the dreary weeks passed, he gave ample evidence that he cared less and less for what he was doing. The serious point in this is that these men were already holders of high office. They were running for the most exalted elec- tive office in the world. Certain evidences of digni- ty are required in such a contest. * Jackson, Lincoln, Hayes and Cleveland won with- out this sort of activity. Most candidates merely remained at home. It was William Jennings Bryan who started the business of running all over the country campaigning. He didn't win. Among the many mo- tives which moved the frosty voters of New Hampshire, there might have been a sense of the proprieties, of proportion, and a concept of what kind of behavior suits an individual who has qualifi- cations for the Presidency. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Let's Abandon Folksy Approach in Campaign BY RAYMOND MOLEY The New Hampshire
primary campaign offers little enlightenment so far as this year's Presidential
campaign is concerned. But it teaches a very se- vere lesson in what is called
the art of politics. This might be pondered by candidates, political man-
agers, and the voting pub- lic generally. The method of cam- paigning adopted
by Sen. Barry Goldwater and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller failed in the pragmatic
test. It didn't work. A silent man on the other side of the world won. His
cause was carried on by subordinate workers on the spot. The routine adopted by
Rockefeller and Goldwa- ter with the voters—and with many who were not voters
at all—was face-to- face and palm-to-palm. Detached austerity with a gesture of
dignity won in the Granite State. Convi- viality failed. Goldwater would have
done better if he had remained on the Senate floor or in the patio of his home
in Phoenix. And his luster would have been maintained if, as some friends
advised, he had skipped that primary entirely. This wretched pattern of cadging
votes was ap- parently set by Rockefel- ler. For in two campaigns for governor
of New York he used it freely. But since his two op- ponents on those occasions
were weak candidates and Rockefeller money flowed like water, it's doubtful
that the walkie-talkie, handshaking, and eating and drinking (coffee) busi-
ness had much effect upon New York voters. Rockefeller, however, didn't
originate the folksy approach. It has been used for generations by candi- dates
for sheriff, for coun- cilman, and for the keep- ership of the dog pound. It is
not uncommon with candidates for Congress. The Rockefeller routine goes far
beyond handshak- ing and broad smiles. His has been a manifestation of
gastronomic prowess. In his New York campaigns for governor, in order to show
that his wealth had not spoiled him, he ate freely of pizzas, blintzes, bagels,
hot dogs and ham- burgers. In New Hampshire the menu was somewhat dif- ferent.
There were hot dogs and hamburgers, but also ice cream sodas and gallons of
coffee. By necessity, Goldwater somewhat awkwardly fol- lowed Rockefeller's
exam- ple. I don't know whether the Arizona senator ate chili con carne when he
was running for office in his state. But in New Hampshire the hands he had to
grasp were colder. As the dreary weeks passed, he gave ample evidence that he
cared less and less for what he was doing. The serious point in this is that
these men were already holders of high office. They were running for the most
exalted elec- tive office in the world. Certain evidences of digni- ty are
required in such a contest. * Jackson, Lincoln, Hayes and Cleveland won with-
out this sort of activity. Most candidates merely remained at home. It was
William Jennings Bryan who started the business of running all over the country
campaigning. He didn't win. Among the many mo- tives which moved the frosty
voters of New Hampshire, there might have been a sense of the proprieties, of
proportion, and a concept of what kind of behavior suits an individual who has
qualifi- cations for the Presidency. Reproduced with permission of the
copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: Goldwater's Managers: THE PRECEDENTS
Date: 1964-04-13
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **PERSPECTIVE** **Goldwater's Managers** **by Raymond Moley** PHOENIX—During the final weeks of the primary campaign and since, a great deal of criticism of Senator Goldwater's management and managers has been published. Politics is like baseball. If the team is leading on Sept. 1, the manager is hailed as a genius. But lose a few games and the pennant that month, and the crown is replaced by a dunce cap and the manager is fired. The printed criticism of Goldwater's management seems to have affected many of his admirers. On my recent visit through several Southern states where Goldwater is regarded as above criticism, I heard complaints about his management. I heard people say: "He ought to have some old pro running things like, say, Len Hall." Hall is mentioned because he is the only living former national chairman who was around when a Republican President was elected. The point missed by these critics is that seeking the Presidency, especially the Presidential nomination, is a wholly personal matter. The party machinery comes into action only after the nomination is made. Since every seeker of the Presidency has his own methods and predilections, the staff is selected to fit his pattern. In this instance, as someone has said, Goldwater is "more unique" than anyone who has sought the Presidency in recent times. **THE PRECEDENTS** The group that guided John F. Kennedy to the nomination and the Presidency had personal ties with the candidate. There were brothers Bobby and Teddy, father Joseph, and the rest of the family. There was also Ted Sorensen, whose brain meshed with that of JFK after ten years of close association. It was their job to nominate and elect a young man who was, at the outset, not well known nationally and whose record in Congress was undistinguished. And they succeeded. When Franklin D. Roosevelt sought the nomination he had at his side Edward J. Flynn and Louis Howe, who had been with him for some years. Flynn was the master strategist Roosevelt had appointed New York Secretary of State, a sinecure, purely to manage his political affairs. It was Flynn who selected James A. Farley as a salesman to carry out his plans. Moreover, at that time the Democratic National Committee and its officers were bitterly opposed to Roosevelt. Those who helped with the speeches and policy matters were new in national politics. **THE ESSENTIAL ELEMENT** Goldwater's plan of management is similar to that created by FDR. The functions are carefully divided into three sorts of activity. There is the group managing political action, field operations, and a field staff to gather delegates. There are the people who provide material on policies for speeches and statements. And there is the financial section. There are six regional political managers and a Goldwater chief in 47 states.  Most recently, a man who is an experienced writer and expert on the issues was selected to remain with Goldwater at all times. Every morning he confers with the candidate to review what was said the day before and plan what is to be said that day. The general director is Denison Kitchel, a Phoenix lawyer who has been close to Goldwater ever since his election as senator and who has constantly counseled with him on labor, fiscal policy, and international affairs. The field operation is directed by Richard Kleindienst, who served as state chairman in Arizona for seven years and also as national committeeman. He knows party people in all the states. The essential element in this organization—as it was in the instances of Roosevelt and Kennedy in other years—is that these people thoroughly understand their candidate. They know his habits and moods, his friends—personal and political—and his previous methods in campaigns for the Senate. Above all, they have his complete confidence.  These factors count more heavily as assets for political success than previous experience in national campaigns. As the number of Goldwater-pledged delegates mounts in the weeks ahead, this sort of management will pay excellent dividends. Newsweek, April 13, 1964
Full Context: **PERSPECTIVE** **Goldwater's Managers** **by Raymond Moley** PHOENIX—During
the final weeks of the primary campaign and since, a great deal of criticism of
Senator Goldwater's management and managers has been published. Politics is
like baseball. If the team is leading on Sept. 1, the manager is hailed as a
genius. But lose a few games and the pennant that month, and the crown is
replaced by a dunce cap and the manager is fired. The printed criticism of
Goldwater's management seems to have affected many of his admirers. On my
recent visit through several Southern states where Goldwater is regarded as
above criticism, I heard complaints about his management. I heard people say:
"He ought to have some old pro running things like, say, Len Hall." Hall is
mentioned because he is the only living former national chairman who was around
when a Republican President was elected. The point missed by these critics is
that seeking the Presidency, especially the Presidential nomination, is a
wholly personal matter. The party machinery comes into action only after the
nomination is made. Since every seeker of the Presidency has his own methods
and predilections, the staff is selected to fit his pattern. In this instance,
as someone has said, Goldwater is "more unique" than anyone who has sought the
Presidency in recent times. **THE PRECEDENTS** The group that guided John F.
Kennedy to the nomination and the Presidency had personal ties with the
candidate. There were brothers Bobby and Teddy, father Joseph, and the rest of
the family. There was also Ted Sorensen, whose brain meshed with that of JFK
after ten years of close association. It was their job to nominate and elect a
young man who was, at the outset, not well known nationally and whose record in
Congress was undistinguished. And they succeeded. When Franklin D. Roosevelt
sought the nomination he had at his side Edward J. Flynn and Louis Howe, who
had been with him for some years. Flynn was the master strategist Roosevelt had
appointed New York Secretary of State, a sinecure, purely to manage his
political affairs. It was Flynn who selected James A. Farley as a salesman to
carry out his plans. Moreover, at that time the Democratic National Committee
and its officers were bitterly opposed to Roosevelt. Those who helped with the
speeches and policy matters were new in national politics. **THE ESSENTIAL
ELEMENT** Goldwater's plan of management is similar to that created by FDR. The
functions are carefully divided into three sorts of activity. There is the
group managing political action, field operations, and a field staff to gather
delegates. There are the people who provide material on policies for speeches
and statements. And there is the financial section. There are six regional
political managers and a Goldwater chief in 47 states.  Most recently, a man
who is an experienced writer and expert on the issues was selected to remain
with Goldwater at all times. Every morning he confers with the candidate to
review what was said the day before and plan what is to be said that day. The
general director is Denison Kitchel, a Phoenix lawyer who has been close to
Goldwater ever since his election as senator and who has constantly counseled
with him on labor, fiscal policy, and international affairs. The field
operation is directed by Richard Kleindienst, who served as state chairman in
Arizona for seven years and also as national committeeman. He knows party
people in all the states. The essential element in this organization—as it was
in the instances of Roosevelt and Kennedy in other years—is that these people
thoroughly understand their candidate. They know his habits and moods, his
friends—personal and political—and his previous methods in campaigns for the
Senate. Above all, they have his complete confidence.  These factors count more
heavily as assets for political success than previous experience in national
campaigns. As the number of Goldwater-pledged delegates mounts in the weeks
ahead, this sort of management will pay excellent dividends. Newsweek, April
13, 1964

==================================================

Title: Oregon Campaigning Exercise in Futility
Date: 1964-05-05
Publication: LAT
Text: Oregon Campaigning Exercise in Futility BY RAYMOND MOLEY Further campaigning in Oregon by Sen. Barry Goldwater and Gov. Nel- son A. Rockefeller would be an exercise in futility. They have their names on the ballot. They have or- ganized efforts in their behalf up there. Both men have said their say, over and over. But if the polls are even partly reliable, the people of Oregon, like their fellow citizens in New Hamp- shire, prefer to vote for people who are not can- didates, who have not appeared in the state and do not intend to visit it. And one of these favored ones is half a world away doing some rather undis- tinguished work in losing a war for a Democratic President. Goldwater has ob- viously come to realize the futility of the Oregon operation, for he has can- celed all his engagements there except one on May 14, eve of the primary. Goldwater made the point in his announcement that he was not interested in running against "phantom candidates." * How these "phantoms" happen to be on the Oregon ballot is a sad commentary on the pri- mary system and the Oregon laws in particular. It would seem that the state of Oregon carefully designed its system to make it a grotesque travesty. Under the law, the secretary of state of the commonwealth leafs over the newspapers ev- ery four years and arbi- trarily selects the name of everyone who has been mentioned as a possible candidate for the Pres- idency. Then he has these names printed on the bal- lot regardless of whether they are candidates and entirely without their permission. Specifically, the law says the secretary of state "in his own dis- cretion" shall place on the ballot the names of such as are "generally advocated or recognized in their na- tional news media throughout the United States" as Presidential possibilities. If, in his newspaper reading, the secretary of state misses someone and that person wishes to get on the ballot, he needs only 1,000 names on a pe- tition to join the melee. And so there were se- lected, in addition to Goldwater and Rockefel- ler, Govs. George Romney and William Scranton, Moley Sen. Margaret Chase Smith and Richard M. Nixon. Romney took advantage of the law which permits a person thus selected to get off the ballot. He had to file an affidavit saying that he "is not now and does not intend to be a candidate." The purpose of the primary system, if it has any real purpose, when it was adopted back in that era of "progressive" non- sense, was that two or more candidates for a party's nomination should come to the state con- cerned and the votes thereof should direct the party delegates to vote for that choice. * As is now clear, a re- quirement that a candi- date appear in even a majority of the states where Presidential pri- maries are held would require that individual to have these qualifications: no occupation or business other than running for of- fice; be a man in the prime of his life with a cast iron physique; have unlimited money; and neglect two- thirds of the states where there are no primaries. Oregon, by adding the refinements described above, has reduced the so- called system to its most absurd pattern.
Full Context: Oregon Campaigning Exercise in Futility BY RAYMOND MOLEY Further campaigning in
Oregon by Sen. Barry Goldwater and Gov. Nel- son A. Rockefeller would be an
exercise in futility. They have their names on the ballot. They have or-
ganized efforts in their behalf up there. Both men have said their say, over
and over. But if the polls are even partly reliable, the people of Oregon, like
their fellow citizens in New Hamp- shire, prefer to vote for people who are not
can- didates, who have not appeared in the state and do not intend to visit it.
And one of these favored ones is half a world away doing some rather undis-
tinguished work in losing a war for a Democratic President. Goldwater has ob-
viously come to realize the futility of the Oregon operation, for he has can-
celed all his engagements there except one on May 14, eve of the primary.
Goldwater made the point in his announcement that he was not interested in
running against "phantom candidates." * How these "phantoms" happen to be on
the Oregon ballot is a sad commentary on the pri- mary system and the Oregon
laws in particular. It would seem that the state of Oregon carefully designed
its system to make it a grotesque travesty. Under the law, the secretary of
state of the commonwealth leafs over the newspapers ev- ery four years and
arbi- trarily selects the name of everyone who has been mentioned as a possible
candidate for the Pres- idency. Then he has these names printed on the bal- lot
regardless of whether they are candidates and entirely without their
permission. Specifically, the law says the secretary of state "in his own dis-
cretion" shall place on the ballot the names of such as are "generally
advocated or recognized in their na- tional news media throughout the United
States" as Presidential possibilities. If, in his newspaper reading, the
secretary of state misses someone and that person wishes to get on the ballot,
he needs only 1,000 names on a pe- tition to join the melee. And so there were
se- lected, in addition to Goldwater and Rockefel- ler, Govs. George Romney and
William Scranton, Moley Sen. Margaret Chase Smith and Richard M. Nixon. Romney
took advantage of the law which permits a person thus selected to get off the
ballot. He had to file an affidavit saying that he "is not now and does not
intend to be a candidate." The purpose of the primary system, if it has any
real purpose, when it was adopted back in that era of "progressive" non- sense,
was that two or more candidates for a party's nomination should come to the
state con- cerned and the votes thereof should direct the party delegates to
vote for that choice. * As is now clear, a re- quirement that a candi- date
appear in even a majority of the states where Presidential pri- maries are held
would require that individual to have these qualifications: no occupation or
business other than running for of- fice; be a man in the prime of his life
with a cast iron physique; have unlimited money; and neglect two- thirds of the
states where there are no primaries. Oregon, by adding the refinements
described above, has reduced the so- called system to its most absurd pattern.

==================================================

Title: AFTER OREGON—WHAT?: ROCKEFELLER MONEY
Date: 1964-06-01
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **PERSPECTIVE** **AFTER OREGON—WHAT?** **BY RAYMOND MOLEY** This department has had nothing to say about Presidential politics since the NEWSWEEK issue of April 20. There has been nothing to say beyond speculation in the context of various primaries. These meant very little except that various possibilities for the GOP nomination were striving to nominate someone other than Goldwater, the leading contender. This division is only superficially a choice between several estimable individuals. It is a replay of an old contest in the Republican Party between Eastern leaders and interests and the Midwest and West and now, the South. This conflict goes back to the first nomination of William McKinley. In past months, whoever offered a choice against Goldwater—Smith, Rockefeller, Lodge, even Stassen—received a considerable vote. The "upset" in Oregon was in the main an upset of the experts who believed Lodge to be a sure winner. Now perhaps those experts whose dispatches show President Johnson to be a sure winner in November will reconsider their superficial and quite sketchy prognostications. The Lodge bubble did not explode in Oregon. Much of the gas escaped in the Illinois primary in mid-April when Lodge preferences were only 6 per cent of the total. And it was pretty flat after the Nebraska preference where Lodge had only 16 percent—a poor third. **ROCKEFELLER MONEY** Thus the popular call for Lodge softened as the center of interest moved away from the land of the Cabots, the Lowells, and the Lodges. Most experts failed to note this. The vigorous efforts by those who favored Nixon in Oregon during the final two weeks of the campaign there were not an effort to nominate the former Vice President. They were designed to take votes away from Lodge. The reasoning was that the Goldwater support was a hard core there as it is in other states and whatever strength could be channeled away from Lodge would end his quest for the nomination. This has been admitted since the primary by the Lodge people, who promptly allied themselves with Rockefeller to stop Goldwater in California. But Rockefeller's desperate campaigning in Oregon and a large outlay of money had a part in the result. An experienced estimate of that outlay puts the figure at no less than $600,000. This went for four mailings which in other years cost about $150,000. There was a great deal of paid time on the air and many advertisements in Oregon newspapers; also, $10 a day for ordinary workers to sit behind desks. One observer has said since, that never again in Oregon will there be volunteer unpaid workers. Rockefeller has given the political labor market a new look. The money flowing in California will break all primary records. **NIXON NEXT TARGET** From now to the California balloting, the coalition against Goldwater will be the managers and supporters of the three Easterners—Rockefeller, Lodge, and Scranton. If Rockefeller wins in California he is by no means certain of the nomination. The drive of money and influence will be directed at winning the support of wavering or uncommitted delegates already selected. Then, if that fails, we may expect the anti-Goldwater coalition to concentrate its attention not for, but against, Nixon. For contrary to much of what is offered as current opinion, Nixon is closer to Goldwater than to any of the Eastern candidates. Ideologically, these two men are not far apart. Both are dedicated to Republican success and have proved that in their tireless campaigning for party candidates over the years since 1952. In 1952, Nixon was selected as the Eisenhower running mate to "balance" the ticket. His record in the House and Senate before 1953 was conservative; he was a Westerner and he was a favorite among Republican leaders in the Midwest and West. Also, many of those around the President who wanted President Eisenhower to "dump" him from the ticket in 1956 are now anti-Goldwater. Only a strong party demand from other parts of the country in that year made him the Vice Presidential nominee again. That is how the political scene looks from here on the eve of the California primary. □ Newsweek, June 1, 1964
Full Context: **PERSPECTIVE** **AFTER OREGON—WHAT?** **BY RAYMOND MOLEY** This department has
had nothing to say about Presidential politics since the NEWSWEEK issue of
April 20. There has been nothing to say beyond speculation in the context of
various primaries. These meant very little except that various possibilities
for the GOP nomination were striving to nominate someone other than Goldwater,
the leading contender. This division is only superficially a choice between
several estimable individuals. It is a replay of an old contest in the
Republican Party between Eastern leaders and interests and the Midwest and West
and now, the South. This conflict goes back to the first nomination of William
McKinley. In past months, whoever offered a choice against Goldwater—Smith,
Rockefeller, Lodge, even Stassen—received a considerable vote. The "upset" in
Oregon was in the main an upset of the experts who believed Lodge to be a sure
winner. Now perhaps those experts whose dispatches show President Johnson to be
a sure winner in November will reconsider their superficial and quite sketchy
prognostications. The Lodge bubble did not explode in Oregon. Much of the gas
escaped in the Illinois primary in mid-April when Lodge preferences were only 6
per cent of the total. And it was pretty flat after the Nebraska preference
where Lodge had only 16 percent—a poor third. **ROCKEFELLER MONEY** Thus the
popular call for Lodge softened as the center of interest moved away from the
land of the Cabots, the Lowells, and the Lodges. Most experts failed to note
this. The vigorous efforts by those who favored Nixon in Oregon during the
final two weeks of the campaign there were not an effort to nominate the former
Vice President. They were designed to take votes away from Lodge. The reasoning
was that the Goldwater support was a hard core there as it is in other states
and whatever strength could be channeled away from Lodge would end his quest
for the nomination. This has been admitted since the primary by the Lodge
people, who promptly allied themselves with Rockefeller to stop Goldwater in
California. But Rockefeller's desperate campaigning in Oregon and a large
outlay of money had a part in the result. An experienced estimate of that
outlay puts the figure at no less than $600,000. This went for four mailings
which in other years cost about $150,000. There was a great deal of paid time
on the air and many advertisements in Oregon newspapers; also, $10 a day for
ordinary workers to sit behind desks. One observer has said since, that never
again in Oregon will there be volunteer unpaid workers. Rockefeller has given
the political labor market a new look. The money flowing in California will
break all primary records. **NIXON NEXT TARGET** From now to the California
balloting, the coalition against Goldwater will be the managers and supporters
of the three Easterners—Rockefeller, Lodge, and Scranton. If Rockefeller wins
in California he is by no means certain of the nomination. The drive of money
and influence will be directed at winning the support of wavering or
uncommitted delegates already selected. Then, if that fails, we may expect the
anti-Goldwater coalition to concentrate its attention not for, but against,
Nixon. For contrary to much of what is offered as current opinion, Nixon is
closer to Goldwater than to any of the Eastern candidates. Ideologically, these
two men are not far apart. Both are dedicated to Republican success and have
proved that in their tireless campaigning for party candidates over the years
since 1952. In 1952, Nixon was selected as the Eisenhower running mate to
"balance" the ticket. His record in the House and Senate before 1953 was
conservative; he was a Westerner and he was a favorite among Republican leaders
in the Midwest and West. Also, many of those around the President who wanted
President Eisenhower to "dump" him from the ticket in 1956 are now
anti-Goldwater. Only a strong party demand from other parts of the country in
that year made him the Vice Presidential nominee again. That is how the
political scene looks from here on the eve of the California primary. □
Newsweek, June 1, 1964

==================================================

Title: Where Is This 'Mainstream'? It Changes Course With New Events
Date: 1964-06-07
Publication: LAT
Text: Where Is This 'Mainstream'? It Changes Course With New Events BY RAYMOND MOLEY Among the many vague words which have been introduced into current jargon is "mainstream." It is quite commonly applied to politics, especially to the state of the Republi- can Party. The recentness of the use of the word is shown by the fact that with one exception the dictionaries I have consulted do not list "mainstream" at all. The very latest edition of Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary defines it as "a prevailing current or direction of activity or in- fluence." Those who have been using the word in oppos- ing Sen. Barry Goldwater fail to tell us when and how or where their par- ticular philosophy pre- vailed. ★ The Republican Party over the 100 years of its existence has held many different positions. In fact, only an utterly naive in- dividual or a partisan careless about the truth can find consistency in "current or direction" in either political party over past years. Since the word is lifted from natural phenomena, its political application resembles the meandering course of a river which flows over a flat country. With every spring flood the course changes. As the Civil War drew to its end, the magnani- mity of Lincoln toward the seceded states prom- ised to prevail. After Lincoln's death, radical Republicanism, under Thaddeus Stevens and others determined the imposition of a Carthagi- nian peace upon the South. ★ President Hayes by a magnificent show of cou- rage, which cost him re- election, reversed this policy and pulled the Union troops out of the South. After Hayes, the Republican Party needed only to wave the "bloody shirt" to win elections, and with the great growth of industrial life the GOP fell under the control of what were called the "vested interests." Theodore Roosevelt promoted a revolt against this control which ended in the great division of the party in 1912. After Wil- son, the 12 years of Re- publican control returned to a course sympathetic to business expansion. The smashing victories of Franklin Roosevelt re- sulted in a complete reor- ientation of his party. It abandoned its early phi- losophy of state and local responsibility. Federal centralization was and is in the ascendency in that party. This Democratic change of direction threw Repub- licans into confusion. A number of the hitherto devoutly observed GOP principles were taken over by the Roosevelt and Truman administrations and Congresses. Republi- cans were offered two op- tions: Either move into the area abandoned by the liberal Democrats and stand for local and state responsibility, for econ- omy in government, and a neutral position on Negro rights. On the other hand, stand by the traditions of earlier years and thus identify the party with the Democrats. As is usual in politics when two diverse alternatives are offered, both were accepted. This is what has caused the present division in the Republican Party. Taft, and after his death, Goldwater, threw their immense influence toward the first of the foregoing alternatives. President Eisenhower valiantly at- tempted to find a middle course and in so doing saw a Republican decline in the states and local communities. What is called conser- vative Republicanism has grown greatly since 1945, especially among young people, and during the past three years has threatened to take over the GOP with Goldwater as the symbol of this movement. That is where we are today on the eve of the Republican conven- tion. ★ It is irrelevant, then, to talk about a "mainstream" for the mainstream will largely be determined by what the party stands for in this campaign. Or per- haps the struggle for the control of the party will still persist. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Where Is This 'Mainstream'? It Changes Course With New Events BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Among the many vague words which have been introduced into current jargon is
"mainstream." It is quite commonly applied to politics, especially to the state
of the Republi- can Party. The recentness of the use of the word is shown by
the fact that with one exception the dictionaries I have consulted do not list
"mainstream" at all. The very latest edition of Webster's New Collegiate
Dictionary defines it as "a prevailing current or direction of activity or in-
fluence." Those who have been using the word in oppos- ing Sen. Barry Goldwater
fail to tell us when and how or where their par- ticular philosophy pre-
vailed. ★ The Republican Party over the 100 years of its existence has held
many different positions. In fact, only an utterly naive in- dividual or a
partisan careless about the truth can find consistency in "current or
direction" in either political party over past years. Since the word is lifted
from natural phenomena, its political application resembles the meandering
course of a river which flows over a flat country. With every spring flood the
course changes. As the Civil War drew to its end, the magnani- mity of Lincoln
toward the seceded states prom- ised to prevail. After Lincoln's death, radical
Republicanism, under Thaddeus Stevens and others determined the imposition of a
Carthagi- nian peace upon the South. ★ President Hayes by a magnificent show of
cou- rage, which cost him re- election, reversed this policy and pulled the
Union troops out of the South. After Hayes, the Republican Party needed only to
wave the "bloody shirt" to win elections, and with the great growth of
industrial life the GOP fell under the control of what were called the "vested
interests." Theodore Roosevelt promoted a revolt against this control which
ended in the great division of the party in 1912. After Wil- son, the 12 years
of Re- publican control returned to a course sympathetic to business expansion.
The smashing victories of Franklin Roosevelt re- sulted in a complete reor-
ientation of his party. It abandoned its early phi- losophy of state and local
responsibility. Federal centralization was and is in the ascendency in that
party. This Democratic change of direction threw Repub- licans into confusion.
A number of the hitherto devoutly observed GOP principles were taken over by
the Roosevelt and Truman administrations and Congresses. Republi- cans were
offered two op- tions: Either move into the area abandoned by the liberal
Democrats and stand for local and state responsibility, for econ- omy in
government, and a neutral position on Negro rights. On the other hand, stand by
the traditions of earlier years and thus identify the party with the Democrats.
As is usual in politics when two diverse alternatives are offered, both were
accepted. This is what has caused the present division in the Republican Party.
Taft, and after his death, Goldwater, threw their immense influence toward the
first of the foregoing alternatives. President Eisenhower valiantly at- tempted
to find a middle course and in so doing saw a Republican decline in the states
and local communities. What is called conser- vative Republicanism has grown
greatly since 1945, especially among young people, and during the past three
years has threatened to take over the GOP with Goldwater as the symbol of this
movement. That is where we are today on the eve of the Republican conven- tion.
★ It is irrelevant, then, to talk about a "mainstream" for the mainstream will
largely be determined by what the party stands for in this campaign. Or per-
haps the struggle for the control of the party will still persist. Reproduced
with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without
permission.

==================================================

Title: Scranton's Role as a Sacrificial Goat Cannot Be a Very Happy One
Date: 1964-06-21
Publication: LAT
Text: Scranton's Role as a Sacrificial Goat Cannot Be a Very Happy One CLAREMONT—The political events during the week which began on Sunday, June 7, will live long in Republican annals. Nothing that happened seemed to follow logically from anything else that happened. I shall always associate those days with Route 66, not because they resembled the improbable dramas on the television show that goes by that name, but because I was in an automobile driving from New York to California. Four of those days were on Route 66. Whenever I stopped for lunch or the night, the newspapers available in that section contained startling new and incomprehensible changes in the situation—if it could be called a situation. ★ Now that Gov. Scranton seems to have made a decision which will measurably last for a month, there is a moment for reflection. While I do not rule out the possibility that Sen. Goldwater may be denied the nomination, the projection of Scranton into the field seems to have been an act of rash impulse. People who expect to win a nomination in modern times plan their operation far in advance. Witness John F. Kennedy and Richard M. Nixon in 1960 and Gov. Rockefeller and Goldwater this year. Adequate organization means at least two sorts of workers. There must be a group headed by an experienced professional to tour the nation and make contacts with state party leaders. This is for the purpose of getting delegates. Then there must be a group to examine the issues and prepare position papers and speeches. The workers in these groups must be expert in their areas of operation. Scranton apparently has had no such helpers. All he has had are a few politicians in Pennsylvania who helped in his BY RAYMOND MOLEY campaign for governor. He himself has only sketchy ideas on national issues picked up during only two years in Congress, from the newspapers, or from well-wishers on the telephone who figured so much in his decisions. It has also been the custom in recent years for a successful nominee to carry his pre-convention organization with him into the campaign. If Scranton should get the nomination he will be expected to join in a conflict with a President who has had vast experience in both houses of Congress and who as vice president and President has had access to all the knowledge possessed by a vast federal establishment. Johnson is also a master of political strategy and techniques, perhaps the best since FDR. ★ The platitudes and wisecracks which Scranton has put in evidence since his decision would not avail in such a contest. It would be pitting a novice against one of the major professionals of our time. His success in winning the electoral votes of many states, if he should get the nomination, would mean that in at least two-thirds of these states he would have to depend upon state and local organizations which have been committed to Gold- water. They will view the rejection of Goldwater with lasting resentment. Money cannot fill this lack of organized support. Nor can a vast campaign of publicity in the press and over the air waves carry a candidate. As a matter of record, Scranton has already had the publicity putsch. Two months ago there was a concerted effort on the part of many publications to create a boom for Scranton. It failed because Scranton couldn't make up his mind to be a candidate and also because the bright pictures of Scranton, his family, his brief career in politics, and his harmless avocations failed to catch hold. There can scarcely be an effective rerun of this publicity material in the time that remains. Those who urged him to enter at this late date and who have joyfully greeted his candidacy are for the most part amateurs or they are backers of Rockefeller, Lodge, and others who now find themselves unemployed. ★ Those who urged the governor to make this strange decision should realize that the prospect of success in a national election by the votes of a few Northeastern states, with much of the Middlewest, the West, and the South apathetic and indifferent, would be hopeless. Or are these people determined to bring the Republican Party down to defeat? For Scranton, by all the measurements, is only a sectional candidate. He is little known beyond the state in which he lives and some neighboring commonwealths. Even Willkie had roots west of Pennsylvania. The role assumed by Scranton as a sacrificial offering is not a happy one, nor is it one which would be conducive to a bright future for the victim. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Scranton's Role as a Sacrificial Goat Cannot Be a Very Happy One CLAREMONT—The
political events during the week which began on Sunday, June 7, will live long
in Republican annals. Nothing that happened seemed to follow logically from
anything else that happened. I shall always associate those days with Route 66,
not because they resembled the improbable dramas on the television show that
goes by that name, but because I was in an automobile driving from New York to
California. Four of those days were on Route 66. Whenever I stopped for lunch
or the night, the newspapers available in that section contained startling new
and incomprehensible changes in the situation—if it could be called a
situation. ★ Now that Gov. Scranton seems to have made a decision which will
measurably last for a month, there is a moment for reflection. While I do not
rule out the possibility that Sen. Goldwater may be denied the nomination, the
projection of Scranton into the field seems to have been an act of rash
impulse. People who expect to win a nomination in modern times plan their
operation far in advance. Witness John F. Kennedy and Richard M. Nixon in 1960
and Gov. Rockefeller and Goldwater this year. Adequate organization means at
least two sorts of workers. There must be a group headed by an experienced
professional to tour the nation and make contacts with state party leaders.
This is for the purpose of getting delegates. Then there must be a group to
examine the issues and prepare position papers and speeches. The workers in
these groups must be expert in their areas of operation. Scranton apparently
has had no such helpers. All he has had are a few politicians in Pennsylvania
who helped in his BY RAYMOND MOLEY campaign for governor. He himself has only
sketchy ideas on national issues picked up during only two years in Congress,
from the newspapers, or from well-wishers on the telephone who figured so much
in his decisions. It has also been the custom in recent years for a successful
nominee to carry his pre-convention organization with him into the campaign. If
Scranton should get the nomination he will be expected to join in a conflict
with a President who has had vast experience in both houses of Congress and who
as vice president and President has had access to all the knowledge possessed
by a vast federal establishment. Johnson is also a master of political strategy
and techniques, perhaps the best since FDR. ★ The platitudes and wisecracks
which Scranton has put in evidence since his decision would not avail in such a
contest. It would be pitting a novice against one of the major professionals of
our time. His success in winning the electoral votes of many states, if he
should get the nomination, would mean that in at least two-thirds of these
states he would have to depend upon state and local organizations which have
been committed to Gold- water. They will view the rejection of Goldwater with
lasting resentment. Money cannot fill this lack of organized support. Nor can a
vast campaign of publicity in the press and over the air waves carry a
candidate. As a matter of record, Scranton has already had the publicity
putsch. Two months ago there was a concerted effort on the part of many
publications to create a boom for Scranton. It failed because Scranton couldn't
make up his mind to be a candidate and also because the bright pictures of
Scranton, his family, his brief career in politics, and his harmless avocations
failed to catch hold. There can scarcely be an effective rerun of this
publicity material in the time that remains. Those who urged him to enter at
this late date and who have joyfully greeted his candidacy are for the most
part amateurs or they are backers of Rockefeller, Lodge, and others who now
find themselves unemployed. ★ Those who urged the governor to make this strange
decision should realize that the prospect of success in a national election by
the votes of a few Northeastern states, with much of the Middlewest, the West,
and the South apathetic and indifferent, would be hopeless. Or are these people
determined to bring the Republican Party down to defeat? For Scranton, by all
the measurements, is only a sectional candidate. He is little known beyond the
state in which he lives and some neighboring commonwealths. Even Willkie had
roots west of Pennsylvania. The role assumed by Scranton as a sacrificial
offering is not a happy one, nor is it one which would be conducive to a bright
future for the victim. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: AFTER THE PRIMARIES: WHAT MAINSTREAM?
Date: 1964-06-22
Publication: Newsweek
Text: PERSPECTIVE AFTER THE PRIMARIES BY RAYMOND MOLEY The hysterical outcries of many politicians and pundits during the first days after the California primary were genuinely amusing. Perhaps the distemper which afflicted these people was due to their loss of faith in their own infallibility and influence. For after they had hammered Goldwater for more than two years with verbal artillery, a sufficient number of Republicans, by their primary votes and in their selection of delegates, seem to have made the nomination of the Arizona senator inevitable. Everything failed the opposition. No alternative candidate or non-candidate gained altitude.  Then a coalition flopped. Polls proved to be an illusion. Ominous warnings scared only those who uttered them. The Gettysburg Cincinnatus declined to panic. And the final flutter in Cleveland died in resignation. Now the tumult and shouting have ceased. Most of those who have been so intemperate in print have had no intention of supporting any Republican candidate. They were just as vehement about Nixon four and five years ago. They have an alternative: LBJ will, they believe, save them from catastrophe. The body of political jargon has been fattened by this anti-Goldwater crusade. Old words have been torn from their meaning and have been applied in politics. The word "moderate" has been immoderately used. It is a weapon word used to oppose Goldwater. I am not a "moderate" in this new context. But I am not for that reason immoderate, I hope, or irresponsible. WHAT MAINSTREAM? The word "mainstream": I cannot find this word in an ideological or political sense except in the very latest dictionaries. Its use against Goldwater assumes that there has been a Republican "mainstream." However, the policies of both parties have, to use Rockefeller's word, meandered for a century, like a river over the plains which changes its course with every spring flood. A party's policies are what the leadership at any given moment makes them. Anyone in a party may seek to change party policy at any time and win a majority in the party to his views. Roosevelt did that in 1935 and 1936 in his radical change in direction from 1932. Since then, the Republican Party has been indeterminate in its policies. Some have wanted to occupy the ground abandoned by Roosevelt. Others have favored a blurry facsimile of liberal democracy. The latter had their choice of candidates in the '40s and '50s. The former, under the leadership of Goldwater, have now won the choice in 1964. LOYAL PARTY SUPPORT It has been charged that Goldwater has been out of step with the Republican mainstream within his party. But if we compare the voting record of Goldwater in the Senate with those of two of his critics, Senators Kuchel and Javits, Goldwater has been far, far more consistently in step with his Republican colleagues. What must be understood is that, according to the compilations of voting records by the Congressional Quarterly, the Republicans in the Senate have been more and more polarized against the liberal Democrats during the past five years. They have provided an authentic, responsible opposition. Goldwater's Republican colleagues selected him for five years as chairman of their campaign committee. In this role he has raised and distributed funds and made innumerable speeches over the nation for all Republican candidates. When he retired from this post last year, his colleagues gave him a glowing resolution of appreciation. In 1960 he made 200 speeches for the Nixon-Lodge ticket in 35 states. That help when help was most needed is what has given him the affection and respect of Republican leaders in so many states. They have responded in their primaries and conventions. In the primaries he has had a great aggregate majority of votes over every rival. It should be noted that delegates are not handpicked by bloated, irresponsible political leaders. They are selected for the most part by people who respond to the choices of their constituents. This is the reality which all Republicans face as they approach the July convention. Newsweek, June 22, 1964
Full Context: PERSPECTIVE AFTER THE PRIMARIES BY RAYMOND MOLEY The hysterical outcries of
many politicians and pundits during the first days after the California primary
were genuinely amusing. Perhaps the distemper which afflicted these people was
due to their loss of faith in their own infallibility and influence. For after
they had hammered Goldwater for more than two years with verbal artillery, a
sufficient number of Republicans, by their primary votes and in their selection
of delegates, seem to have made the nomination of the Arizona senator
inevitable. Everything failed the opposition. No alternative candidate or
non-candidate gained altitude.  Then a coalition flopped. Polls proved to be an
illusion. Ominous warnings scared only those who uttered them. The Gettysburg
Cincinnatus declined to panic. And the final flutter in Cleveland died in
resignation. Now the tumult and shouting have ceased. Most of those who have
been so intemperate in print have had no intention of supporting any Republican
candidate. They were just as vehement about Nixon four and five years ago. They
have an alternative: LBJ will, they believe, save them from catastrophe. The
body of political jargon has been fattened by this anti-Goldwater crusade. Old
words have been torn from their meaning and have been applied in politics. The
word "moderate" has been immoderately used. It is a weapon word used to oppose
Goldwater. I am not a "moderate" in this new context. But I am not for that
reason immoderate, I hope, or irresponsible. WHAT MAINSTREAM? The word
"mainstream": I cannot find this word in an ideological or political sense
except in the very latest dictionaries. Its use against Goldwater assumes that
there has been a Republican "mainstream." However, the policies of both parties
have, to use Rockefeller's word, meandered for a century, like a river over the
plains which changes its course with every spring flood. A party's policies are
what the leadership at any given moment makes them. Anyone in a party may seek
to change party policy at any time and win a majority in the party to his
views. Roosevelt did that in 1935 and 1936 in his radical change in direction
from 1932. Since then, the Republican Party has been indeterminate in its
policies. Some have wanted to occupy the ground abandoned by Roosevelt. Others
have favored a blurry facsimile of liberal democracy. The latter had their
choice of candidates in the '40s and '50s. The former, under the leadership of
Goldwater, have now won the choice in 1964. LOYAL PARTY SUPPORT It has been
charged that Goldwater has been out of step with the Republican mainstream
within his party. But if we compare the voting record of Goldwater in the
Senate with those of two of his critics, Senators Kuchel and Javits, Goldwater
has been far, far more consistently in step with his Republican colleagues.
What must be understood is that, according to the compilations of voting
records by the Congressional Quarterly, the Republicans in the Senate have been
more and more polarized against the liberal Democrats during the past five
years. They have provided an authentic, responsible opposition. Goldwater's
Republican colleagues selected him for five years as chairman of their campaign
committee. In this role he has raised and distributed funds and made
innumerable speeches over the nation for all Republican candidates. When he
retired from this post last year, his colleagues gave him a glowing resolution
of appreciation. In 1960 he made 200 speeches for the Nixon-Lodge ticket in 35
states. That help when help was most needed is what has given him the affection
and respect of Republican leaders in so many states. They have responded in
their primaries and conventions. In the primaries he has had a great aggregate
majority of votes over every rival. It should be noted that delegates are not
handpicked by bloated, irresponsible political leaders. They are selected for
the most part by people who respond to the choices of their constituents. This
is the reality which all Republicans face as they approach the July convention.
Newsweek, June 22, 1964

==================================================

Title: Advice to Public While Awaiting the Convention: Just Play It Cool
Date: 1964-07-05
Publication: LAT
Text: Advice to Public While Awaiting the Convention: Just Play It Cool BY RAYMOND MOLEY In the final days before any contest that captures widespread interest, the public is generally over- whelmed by a mass of in- formation, misinformation, rumors, guesses, predictions and propa- ganda by the special in- terests concerned. This is true of a murder trial, a championship prize fight, a world's series, primaries, conventions, and elections. It is not strange that a good deal of it finds its way into the media of news and opinion. For these media are created to interest and inform the public. And the public is always interested in what has been unexpected. The best advice at this moment for Mr. and Mrs. Public is to keep calm, drink plenty of cool water, and get eight hours of sleep. Much of what you are hearing is not so, is not important, or is designed to alarm you. * Bear in mind that the method by which Presidential candidates are named was created about 130 years ago. It is not perfect. No man-made in- stitution is perfect. But it is the best way a nation knows to govern itself in this vital area. The convention is a form of representative government. Delegates are selected by one method or another and then are supposed to vote as they believe best for their party or according to the directives of their constituents. In the present instance the contest is between Sen. Barry Goldwater and those who are against him. In certain mysterious ways that need not be de- scribed here Gov. William Scranton has been se- lected to challenge the leading contender. If the wheel of chance had stopped somewhere else, the name might have been Rockefeller, Lodge, Nixon, or Stassen. This is not a choice that is seriously based upon a widespread conviction that this estimable young man is best qualified to be President of the United States. His official record is scanty and his views have yet to be promulgated. He is against somebody and is seeking to show by various weird conjugations of figures that the nomination of that somebody is not the choice of Republicans, and (b) that President Johnson would beat that somebody. To accomplish this purpose, he is driving at a spot in politicians' armor which has been vulnerable in the past. He is telling delegates that the man to whom they are either legally or morally committed can't win if nominated. This tactic worked in 1852 when the same method was used against the late Sen. Taft. It is cynical attack, be- cause it is based upon the assumption that the political people who have been selected as delegates would, if their self-interest dictates, abandon commitments, desert their in- structions, and break their promises. This is not nice conduct for a young and promising man who is just starting a career in national politics. To achieve this purpose, the people who are guiding his fortunes have brought out the pollsters from their temporary loss of face after their egregious mistakes in Oregon and California to prove a case against Goldwater. Working for the Scranton objective is a back- wash of bitter propaganda against Goldwater which has been continuous for two years. The misinterpretation of Goldwater's position has been repeated so often that it is assumed that what was once doubted and denied will be accepted as true. But is this the way to select or not to select a candidate for President of the United States? Can these activists against Goldwater support a man for President whom they have repeatedly called an enemy of the republic and a peril to the peace of the world? ★ They can and will. And will once more prove how cynical is the practice of their profession. So I repeat my advice. Keep calm. Take plenty of salt with your daily dose of information. And let the delegates decide. For the convention is the method Americans have chosen to select their candidates, after generations of trial and error. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Advice to Public While Awaiting the Convention: Just Play It Cool BY RAYMOND
MOLEY In the final days before any contest that captures widespread interest,
the public is generally over- whelmed by a mass of in- formation,
misinformation, rumors, guesses, predictions and propa- ganda by the special
in- terests concerned. This is true of a murder trial, a championship prize
fight, a world's series, primaries, conventions, and elections. It is not
strange that a good deal of it finds its way into the media of news and
opinion. For these media are created to interest and inform the public. And the
public is always interested in what has been unexpected. The best advice at
this moment for Mr. and Mrs. Public is to keep calm, drink plenty of cool
water, and get eight hours of sleep. Much of what you are hearing is not so, is
not important, or is designed to alarm you. * Bear in mind that the method by
which Presidential candidates are named was created about 130 years ago. It is
not perfect. No man-made in- stitution is perfect. But it is the best way a
nation knows to govern itself in this vital area. The convention is a form of
representative government. Delegates are selected by one method or another and
then are supposed to vote as they believe best for their party or according to
the directives of their constituents. In the present instance the contest is
between Sen. Barry Goldwater and those who are against him. In certain
mysterious ways that need not be de- scribed here Gov. William Scranton has
been se- lected to challenge the leading contender. If the wheel of chance had
stopped somewhere else, the name might have been Rockefeller, Lodge, Nixon, or
Stassen. This is not a choice that is seriously based upon a widespread
conviction that this estimable young man is best qualified to be President of
the United States. His official record is scanty and his views have yet to be
promulgated. He is against somebody and is seeking to show by various weird
conjugations of figures that the nomination of that somebody is not the choice
of Republicans, and (b) that President Johnson would beat that somebody. To
accomplish this purpose, he is driving at a spot in politicians' armor which
has been vulnerable in the past. He is telling delegates that the man to whom
they are either legally or morally committed can't win if nominated. This
tactic worked in 1852 when the same method was used against the late Sen. Taft.
It is cynical attack, be- cause it is based upon the assumption that the
political people who have been selected as delegates would, if their
self-interest dictates, abandon commitments, desert their in- structions, and
break their promises. This is not nice conduct for a young and promising man
who is just starting a career in national politics. To achieve this purpose,
the people who are guiding his fortunes have brought out the pollsters from
their temporary loss of face after their egregious mistakes in Oregon and
California to prove a case against Goldwater. Working for the Scranton
objective is a back- wash of bitter propaganda against Goldwater which has been
continuous for two years. The misinterpretation of Goldwater's position has
been repeated so often that it is assumed that what was once doubted and denied
will be accepted as true. But is this the way to select or not to select a
candidate for President of the United States? Can these activists against
Goldwater support a man for President whom they have repeatedly called an enemy
of the republic and a peril to the peace of the world? ★ They can and will. And
will once more prove how cynical is the practice of their profession. So I
repeat my advice. Keep calm. Take plenty of salt with your daily dose of
information. And let the delegates decide. For the convention is the method
Americans have chosen to select their candidates, after generations of trial
and error. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further
reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: A PARTY REVOLUTION: FORCE AND OPTIMISM
Date: 1964-07-13
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **Column 1 (Perspective):** A PARTY REVOLUTION BY RAYMOND MOLEY Los Angeles—Eastern and Northeast- ern politicians and erstwhile lead- ers, as well as those who interpret them for us, fail to realize that in attacking Goldwater they are tilting at a symbol rather than a reality. The reality is a protest, deep and wide and powerful, among Repub- licans, homeless Democrats, and the politically unattached against past Republican Party control and also the sort of government we have had dur- ing the last 25 years. This protest has grown in the past decade from a mere difference of opinion to a veri- table revolution. It arose from nat- ural developments—a great shift of population and of economic power and social change. It was so when the Jeffersonians overthrew the Federalists in 1800 and when in the age of Jackson the frontier revolted against the built-in Washington bureaucracy, King Cau- cus, and the Bank of the United States. It was so when the Republi- can Party was born out of the ashes of the Whigs. And also when West- ern "progressives" started a move- ment which ended in the Republican schism in 1912. It was so when Frank- lin D. Roosevelt tore the Democratic Party away from its traditional moor- ings in the 1930s. FORCE AND OPTIMISM Since the beginning of World War II there has been a tremendous shift of population, of wealth, and cultural and educational leadership from the East and Northeast to the West and South. Between 1950 and 1960 the most rapidly growing regions have been the Pacific Coast, with a gain of 40 per cent (this is larger now), the mountain area with 35 per cent, and the Southeastern states with 22 per cent. Also, Texas has had a gain of 24 per cent. I have seen this change from year to year in the course of eleven round trips by automobile between the coasts and during six trips through the South during that period. There has also been a great move- ment of people into urban areas from the rural counties and from the North and East. The latter have moved there because of the location of so many industrial plants in areas with a favorable business climate and **Column 2:** which are closer to their raw mate- rials and also to their markets. The vivid impression one gets in those cities and sprawling suburbs is force, energy, optimism, and progress. With a few exceptions, they are not wait- ing for help from Washington. They want to grow, exploit their natural advantages. People want to own their homes, educate their children, and realize other benefits of a new life. THE BOURBONS In politics there is always a lag of years before natural changes such as these are reflected in the thinking of observers. There is an old German saying that things are faster than thoughts. Before a philosophical sys- tem is thought out and written, the world on which it was based has passed away. The minds of those who promoted the Willkie nomination in 1940 and the three which followed fail to comprehend what has been happening in the nation during those years. Until the threat of a Gold- water nomination loomed a year ago, those people were happy in "anticipa- tion of yesterday afternoon." When a glimpse of the reality of Goldwater's strength appeared, there was at first doubt, then consternation, and later, hysterical frustration. Their immoderate language belies their claims to be moderate. They prate about looking forward when they are still scanning the past. The names of the illustrious dead are invoked to drive away Goldwater's demand for a change. They talk about a mainstream, although the main channel has long left their prov- inces. These are not the progressives of our time. They are the Bourbons who never learn and never forget. When the Duc de La Rochefoucauld- Liancourt rushed to Versailles with the news of the fall of the Bastille on July 14, 1789, the King said: "But, it is a revolt!" The answer was: "Sire, it is not a revolt—it is a revolution." It is not coincidence that Gold- water's support is greatest and most firm in areas where there has been the most marked growth. Goldwater may win or lose, but this revolution is a durable fact. The Republican Party will never be the same after the nomination this year. Newsweek, July 13, 1964
Full Context: **Column 1 (Perspective):** A PARTY REVOLUTION BY RAYMOND MOLEY Los
Angeles—Eastern and Northeast- ern politicians and erstwhile lead- ers, as well
as those who interpret them for us, fail to realize that in attacking Goldwater
they are tilting at a symbol rather than a reality. The reality is a protest,
deep and wide and powerful, among Repub- licans, homeless Democrats, and the
politically unattached against past Republican Party control and also the sort
of government we have had dur- ing the last 25 years. This protest has grown in
the past decade from a mere difference of opinion to a veri- table revolution.
It arose from nat- ural developments—a great shift of population and of
economic power and social change. It was so when the Jeffersonians overthrew
the Federalists in 1800 and when in the age of Jackson the frontier revolted
against the built-in Washington bureaucracy, King Cau- cus, and the Bank of the
United States. It was so when the Republi- can Party was born out of the ashes
of the Whigs. And also when West- ern "progressives" started a move- ment which
ended in the Republican schism in 1912. It was so when Frank- lin D. Roosevelt
tore the Democratic Party away from its traditional moor- ings in the 1930s.
FORCE AND OPTIMISM Since the beginning of World War II there has been a
tremendous shift of population, of wealth, and cultural and educational
leadership from the East and Northeast to the West and South. Between 1950 and
1960 the most rapidly growing regions have been the Pacific Coast, with a gain
of 40 per cent (this is larger now), the mountain area with 35 per cent, and
the Southeastern states with 22 per cent. Also, Texas has had a gain of 24 per
cent. I have seen this change from year to year in the course of eleven round
trips by automobile between the coasts and during six trips through the South
during that period. There has also been a great move- ment of people into urban
areas from the rural counties and from the North and East. The latter have
moved there because of the location of so many industrial plants in areas with
a favorable business climate and **Column 2:** which are closer to their raw
mate- rials and also to their markets. The vivid impression one gets in those
cities and sprawling suburbs is force, energy, optimism, and progress. With a
few exceptions, they are not wait- ing for help from Washington. They want to
grow, exploit their natural advantages. People want to own their homes, educate
their children, and realize other benefits of a new life. THE BOURBONS In
politics there is always a lag of years before natural changes such as these
are reflected in the thinking of observers. There is an old German saying that
things are faster than thoughts. Before a philosophical sys- tem is thought out
and written, the world on which it was based has passed away. The minds of
those who promoted the Willkie nomination in 1940 and the three which followed
fail to comprehend what has been happening in the nation during those years.
Until the threat of a Gold- water nomination loomed a year ago, those people
were happy in "anticipa- tion of yesterday afternoon." When a glimpse of the
reality of Goldwater's strength appeared, there was at first doubt, then
consternation, and later, hysterical frustration. Their immoderate language
belies their claims to be moderate. They prate about looking forward when they
are still scanning the past. The names of the illustrious dead are invoked to
drive away Goldwater's demand for a change. They talk about a mainstream,
although the main channel has long left their prov- inces. These are not the
progressives of our time. They are the Bourbons who never learn and never
forget. When the Duc de La Rochefoucauld- Liancourt rushed to Versailles with
the news of the fall of the Bastille on July 14, 1789, the King said: "But, it
is a revolt!" The answer was: "Sire, it is not a revolt—it is a revolution." It
is not coincidence that Gold- water's support is greatest and most firm in
areas where there has been the most marked growth. Goldwater may win or lose,
but this revolution is a durable fact. The Republican Party will never be the
same after the nomination this year. Newsweek, July 13, 1964

==================================================

Title: WHAT IT MEANS: LONG BEGINNING
Date: 1964-07-27
Publication: Newsweek
Text: PERSPECTIVE WHAT IT MEANS BY RAYMOND MOLEY San Francisco—Observers from overseas, as they have witnessed our noisy and seemingly disorderly national conventions, have wondered why, with this method of selecting candidates for the Presidency, we have had, with the exception of Britain, the most stable government on earth. More than 50 years ago a Russian, Moisei Ostrogorski, wrote a memorable description of a national convention. He said that when you leave the convention and inhale the clear air outside, “when you carry your thoughts back from the scene which you have just witnessed and review the line of Presidents, you find that if they have not all been great men—far from it—they were all honorable men.” And, he said, you cannot help repeating an old American saying that God takes care of little children and the United States. (Ostrogorski’s long-neglected classic “Democracy and the Organization of Political Parties” has been brought out this month in an Anchor Books paperback edition.) At any convention, and especially in this one, there is a deep meaning beneath all the insincerities and diversions, for the destiny of a party and even the future of the nation’s course may lie with the beleaguered and badgered delegates. Here in San Francisco there was clearly registered a nationwide Republican conviction which has been in the making since Governor Dewey wrested the nomination from Senator Taft in 1948 and later, in 1952, when Dewey, Lodge, et al. once more blasted the Ohio senator’s ambitions. LONG BEGINNING A protest against this domination of the Republican Party by liberal Republicans of the East and Northeast has grown greater and greater during the Eisenhower years and since. As I made clear in this space two weeks ago, it has been most notable in those areas where there has been the most marked growth in population, in industrial development, and in real wealth—in the Southeast, the Mountain States, and on the Pacific Coast. It is no mere coincidence that it was the delegates from those areas who dominated the convention and preferred Goldwater as the candidate. But this protest, which has grown into a veritable party revolution, had its beginnings well before Goldwater entered the Senate and years before he became a candidate for the Presidential nomination. His part in this change has been in innumerable speeches over the country and in his articulation of the principles in which these dissidents believe. Since it is always easier to attack a fallible individual than powerful natural changes, former caretakers of Republicanism have centered their attack upon Goldwater personally. I have not in my time witnessed such billingsgate, misrepresentations, and irrational fury except in the early 1930s when FDR challenged the custodians of the Democratic Party. TIME FOR REASSESSMENT In 1932, as now, the supporters of the successful candidate were called, by supposedly responsible people, cranks, know-nothings, and extremists. The word “crackpot” came into currency then because of its use by a Roosevelt rival. The wholesale vilification of Goldwater supporters is much more serious than the attacks upon the man himself. For Goldwater can afford to ignore personal attacks. But to charge that these delegates and the people back home who selected them are unfit to exercise their choice of a Presidential candidate is an unforgivable affront. There is time now for those people who have been shaping opinion to reassess the fundamental changes which brought Goldwater to the top. There is time, too, for thoughtful reconsideration by the major television and radio networks of the sort of thing which they have chosen to designate as news. They are privileged under the laws of the United States to reach a nationwide audience. Countless Americans already consider them to be spokesmen for a fractional and prejudiced sector of American opinion. Freedom of the press is to be used, not abused. To those who have been engaged in the anti-Goldwater tirade, I commend what Emerson said to a woman reformer a century ago. She sighed: “I accept the universe.” Emerson answered: “You’d better.” Newsweek, July 27, 1964
Full Context: PERSPECTIVE WHAT IT MEANS BY RAYMOND MOLEY San Francisco—Observers from
overseas, as they have witnessed our noisy and seemingly disorderly national
conventions, have wondered why, with this method of selecting candidates for
the Presidency, we have had, with the exception of Britain, the most stable
government on earth. More than 50 years ago a Russian, Moisei Ostrogorski,
wrote a memorable description of a national convention. He said that when you
leave the convention and inhale the clear air outside, “when you carry your
thoughts back from the scene which you have just witnessed and review the line
of Presidents, you find that if they have not all been great men—far from
it—they were all honorable men.” And, he said, you cannot help repeating an old
American saying that God takes care of little children and the United States.
(Ostrogorski’s long-neglected classic “Democracy and the Organization of
Political Parties” has been brought out this month in an Anchor Books paperback
edition.) At any convention, and especially in this one, there is a deep
meaning beneath all the insincerities and diversions, for the destiny of a
party and even the future of the nation’s course may lie with the beleaguered
and badgered delegates. Here in San Francisco there was clearly registered a
nationwide Republican conviction which has been in the making since Governor
Dewey wrested the nomination from Senator Taft in 1948 and later, in 1952, when
Dewey, Lodge, et al. once more blasted the Ohio senator’s ambitions. LONG
BEGINNING A protest against this domination of the Republican Party by liberal
Republicans of the East and Northeast has grown greater and greater during the
Eisenhower years and since. As I made clear in this space two weeks ago, it has
been most notable in those areas where there has been the most marked growth in
population, in industrial development, and in real wealth—in the Southeast, the
Mountain States, and on the Pacific Coast. It is no mere coincidence that it
was the delegates from those areas who dominated the convention and preferred
Goldwater as the candidate. But this protest, which has grown into a veritable
party revolution, had its beginnings well before Goldwater entered the Senate
and years before he became a candidate for the Presidential nomination. His
part in this change has been in innumerable speeches over the country and in
his articulation of the principles in which these dissidents believe. Since it
is always easier to attack a fallible individual than powerful natural changes,
former caretakers of Republicanism have centered their attack upon Goldwater
personally. I have not in my time witnessed such billingsgate,
misrepresentations, and irrational fury except in the early 1930s when FDR
challenged the custodians of the Democratic Party. TIME FOR REASSESSMENT In
1932, as now, the supporters of the successful candidate were called, by
supposedly responsible people, cranks, know-nothings, and extremists. The word
“crackpot” came into currency then because of its use by a Roosevelt rival. The
wholesale vilification of Goldwater supporters is much more serious than the
attacks upon the man himself. For Goldwater can afford to ignore personal
attacks. But to charge that these delegates and the people back home who
selected them are unfit to exercise their choice of a Presidential candidate is
an unforgivable affront. There is time now for those people who have been
shaping opinion to reassess the fundamental changes which brought Goldwater to
the top. There is time, too, for thoughtful reconsideration by the major
television and radio networks of the sort of thing which they have chosen to
designate as news. They are privileged under the laws of the United States to
reach a nationwide audience. Countless Americans already consider them to be
spokesmen for a fractional and prejudiced sector of American opinion. Freedom
of the press is to be used, not abused. To those who have been engaged in the
anti-Goldwater tirade, I commend what Emerson said to a woman reformer a
century ago. She sighed: “I accept the universe.” Emerson answered: “You’d
better.” Newsweek, July 27, 1964

==================================================

Title: PARTY CONTROL: INFLUENCE IN CONGRESS
Date: 1964-08-03
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **PERSPECTIVE** **PARTY CONTROL** BY RAYMOND MOLEY In the political comment before, during, and after the San Francisco convention the expression “party control” was frequently used. But what does party control mean? Is there such a thing? If so, what does it mean in the Republican Party now, after Goldwater’s clear margin of victory in winning the nomination? In this political context the word “control” is different than when we speak of control of a corporation. In that case, a majority of the stockholders selects a board of directors to its liking; the board then selects top management and defines policies, and the management enforces discipline all along the line. But a party is many things. Nobody “runs” a party. It is a loose aggregation of many, semi-independent units. The name of the party may be all they have in common. **INFLUENCE IN CONGRESS** There are at present the two Republican minority groups—one in the Senate, the other in the House. Each has its chosen officers and leaders. The leaders maintain a rather loose influence over the members. This cannot be called control. In recent years these Republican groups in Congress have done a good deal of constructive work in drafting policy statements and in seeking unity on the issues before Congress. On the Democratic side, policy is almost always determined by the White House. Goldwater’s influence in Congress, even if he loses, will remain strong. He has been there and has been a team worker, even if he has sometimes acted independently in voting. He is respected by his colleagues as one who understands the problems faced by legislators. This is especially true of most of the younger House members who fairly well conform to the ideological views of the senator. The Republican Congressional Committee under Bob Wilson is an operating agency issuing party statements and helping House candidates. It is important to note that only twice since the accession of T.R. in 1901 have Republican Presidential candidates served in Congress. Harding had been an undistinguished senator, and Richard Nixon had been a freshman senator. The others were greatly hampered by their lack of knowledge of a member’s problems and, unless they won the Presidency, had little influence in Congress later. Then there is the Republican National Committee. Since it has been selected by the delegations to the recent convention and since the great majority of those delegations supported Goldwater, the new national committee will be highly responsive to Goldwater. But the national committee seldom meets. Its business is done by committees and the chairman. Looking toward the future, Goldwater named a friend who participated in his campaign for the nomination, Dean Burch, as chairman. Denison Kitchel, who was the general campaign director before San Francisco, will stay for the duration of the campaign but will probably retire after the election. The staff of the national committee, which operates under the directives of the chairman, will be reorganized by the new chairman, from top to bottom. It will be built into a more effective instrument of Republican propaganda and its relations with state organizations will be strengthened. **GOLDWATER’S ROLE** Perhaps the major factor in the new Republican regime will be Goldwater himself. He will not permit his status as titular leader of the party to recede by neglect as did Landon, Willkie, Dewey, and, in a lesser degree, Nixon after defeat. He will no doubt make party work his major vocation. He has the personal means to do this. He will maintain constant contacts with Republicans in the states and in Congress and with the national committee. To appraise the role of Goldwater himself in this party reorientation, the nature and inclinations of the man himself must be considered. He cares nothing at all about the hidden wire-pulling which is the delight of so many politicians. He hates indirection in speech. He is no orator who ignites mass emotions. He is concerned with the teaching or, if you will, preaching function in public life. In this role he will continue to serve, regardless of the outcome in November. That is how he won the following that gave him the nomination. Newsweek, August 3, 1964
Full Context: **PERSPECTIVE** **PARTY CONTROL** BY RAYMOND MOLEY In the political comment
before, during, and after the San Francisco convention the expression “party
control” was frequently used. But what does party control mean? Is there such a
thing? If so, what does it mean in the Republican Party now, after Goldwater’s
clear margin of victory in winning the nomination? In this political context
the word “control” is different than when we speak of control of a corporation.
In that case, a majority of the stockholders selects a board of directors to
its liking; the board then selects top management and defines policies, and the
management enforces discipline all along the line. But a party is many things.
Nobody “runs” a party. It is a loose aggregation of many, semi-independent
units. The name of the party may be all they have in common. **INFLUENCE IN
CONGRESS** There are at present the two Republican minority groups—one in the
Senate, the other in the House. Each has its chosen officers and leaders. The
leaders maintain a rather loose influence over the members. This cannot be
called control. In recent years these Republican groups in Congress have done a
good deal of constructive work in drafting policy statements and in seeking
unity on the issues before Congress. On the Democratic side, policy is almost
always determined by the White House. Goldwater’s influence in Congress, even
if he loses, will remain strong. He has been there and has been a team worker,
even if he has sometimes acted independently in voting. He is respected by his
colleagues as one who understands the problems faced by legislators. This is
especially true of most of the younger House members who fairly well conform to
the ideological views of the senator. The Republican Congressional Committee
under Bob Wilson is an operating agency issuing party statements and helping
House candidates. It is important to note that only twice since the accession
of T.R. in 1901 have Republican Presidential candidates served in Congress.
Harding had been an undistinguished senator, and Richard Nixon had been a
freshman senator. The others were greatly hampered by their lack of knowledge
of a member’s problems and, unless they won the Presidency, had little
influence in Congress later. Then there is the Republican National Committee.
Since it has been selected by the delegations to the recent convention and
since the great majority of those delegations supported Goldwater, the new
national committee will be highly responsive to Goldwater. But the national
committee seldom meets. Its business is done by committees and the chairman.
Looking toward the future, Goldwater named a friend who participated in his
campaign for the nomination, Dean Burch, as chairman. Denison Kitchel, who was
the general campaign director before San Francisco, will stay for the duration
of the campaign but will probably retire after the election. The staff of the
national committee, which operates under the directives of the chairman, will
be reorganized by the new chairman, from top to bottom. It will be built into a
more effective instrument of Republican propaganda and its relations with state
organizations will be strengthened. **GOLDWATER’S ROLE** Perhaps the major
factor in the new Republican regime will be Goldwater himself. He will not
permit his status as titular leader of the party to recede by neglect as did
Landon, Willkie, Dewey, and, in a lesser degree, Nixon after defeat. He will no
doubt make party work his major vocation. He has the personal means to do this.
He will maintain constant contacts with Republicans in the states and in
Congress and with the national committee. To appraise the role of Goldwater
himself in this party reorientation, the nature and inclinations of the man
himself must be considered. He cares nothing at all about the hidden
wire-pulling which is the delight of so many politicians. He hates indirection
in speech. He is no orator who ignites mass emotions. He is concerned with the
teaching or, if you will, preaching function in public life. In this role he
will continue to serve, regardless of the outcome in November. That is how he
won the following that gave him the nomination. Newsweek, August 3, 1964

==================================================

Title: THIS IS OUR BUSINESS: THE 'LION'S PAW'
Date: 1964-08-10
Publication: Newsweek
Text: PERSPECTIVE THIS IS OUR BUSINESS BY RAYMOND MOLEY While both Presidential candidates may labor to prevent pre-Civil War issues from playing a part in this campaign, there is nothing they can do about the ignition of a still more remote concern—the spirit of 1776. The British press, even its more sedate and respected members, has been engaged, for the most part, uninformed, a vicious and, attack upon Senator Goldwater. This has been presented in some detail to American readers by certain anti-Goldwater newspapers such as The New York Times. It is presumably intended to remind us that we must not offend the sensibilities of the mother country. The most incertain consequences of this injection of British opinion into an American political campaign will be bitter resentment, not only by Goldwater supporters but by every American who believes that the selection of Presidential candidates is strictly our own business. In 1888, President Cleveland and Benjamin Harrison were engaged in a hard-fought campaign. The British minister to the United States was Sir Lionel Sackville-West. Because of his scandalous liaison with a Spanish dancer, the Prime Minister had found various European governments unwilling to accept Sackville-West. And so he sent him to the United States and we accepted him. There were smart individuals among the Republican Party at that time, and some of them not discerned that Sackville-West not only used bad judgment in his un-Victorian love life but was generally a very dumb character. THE 'LION'S PAW' So in order to entrap him, Republicans sent him a letter purporting to come from a naturalized citizen of English birth living in Pomona, Calif., and asking whom he should vote for. Sackville-West naively replied that the re-election of Cleveland would be better for Britain. The Republican New York Tribune made a sensational comment: "The British Lion's paw thrust into American politics to help Cleveland." A wave of anger swept over the country. Thoroughly frightened, Cleveland first complained to Lord Salisbury, and when the Prime Minister hesitated about withdrawing Sackville-West, the President summarily dismissed him. This episode was an important factor in Cleveland's defeat a few weeks later. While no Western official has joined in the attack on Goldwater, the foreign press has shown no such restraint. I was asked, while I was on the West Coast, why the European press had gotten such a distorted concept of Goldwater and his views. The answer is that foreign correspondents are quite generally concentrated in Washington and in New York. Their opinions and most of their news come from the American newspapers that they meet at the press clubs, cocktail parties, and dinners and from the Eastern American newspapers. They also absorb a great deal from the bureaucracy in Washington and at the United Nations in New York. Since all of these sources are heavily laden with opinions and information slanted toward the Johnson Administration, their European newspapers reek with anti-Goldwater stuff. ANOTHER BLUNDER A careful examination of the reporting of our 1952 campaign in the British press showed not only that it was heavily pro-Stevenson but that up to the day of election European readers were told that Eisenhower was doomed to defeat. After the election, the correspondent for the Manchester Guardian burst into lamentation for poor Adlai Stevenson. I had the privilege of addressing the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco on the Friday before the recent convention. One of the questions sent up after my remarks was what the British would think about a Goldwater nomination. With perhaps unnecessary but sincere emphasis, I replied: "It's none of their business." This elicited from a normally sober and sophisticated group of business and professional men not only warm applause but—of all things from a San Francisco audience—whistling. The British press has gravely misjudged American opinion many times, not only in the distant past but more recently. This present hysterical attack upon Goldwater is as great a blunder as the imposition of the stamp tax. Newsweek, August 10, 1964
Full Context: PERSPECTIVE THIS IS OUR BUSINESS BY RAYMOND MOLEY While both Presidential
candidates may labor to prevent pre-Civil War issues from playing a part in
this campaign, there is nothing they can do about the ignition of a still more
remote concern—the spirit of 1776. The British press, even its more sedate and
respected members, has been engaged, for the most part, uninformed, a vicious
and, attack upon Senator Goldwater. This has been presented in some detail to
American readers by certain anti-Goldwater newspapers such as The New York
Times. It is presumably intended to remind us that we must not offend the
sensibilities of the mother country. The most incertain consequences of this
injection of British opinion into an American political campaign will be bitter
resentment, not only by Goldwater supporters but by every American who believes
that the selection of Presidential candidates is strictly our own business. In
1888, President Cleveland and Benjamin Harrison were engaged in a hard-fought
campaign. The British minister to the United States was Sir Lionel
Sackville-West. Because of his scandalous liaison with a Spanish dancer, the
Prime Minister had found various European governments unwilling to accept
Sackville-West. And so he sent him to the United States and we accepted him.
There were smart individuals among the Republican Party at that time, and some
of them not discerned that Sackville-West not only used bad judgment in his
un-Victorian love life but was generally a very dumb character. THE 'LION'S
PAW' So in order to entrap him, Republicans sent him a letter purporting to
come from a naturalized citizen of English birth living in Pomona, Calif., and
asking whom he should vote for. Sackville-West naively replied that the
re-election of Cleveland would be better for Britain. The Republican New York
Tribune made a sensational comment: "The British Lion's paw thrust into
American politics to help Cleveland." A wave of anger swept over the country.
Thoroughly frightened, Cleveland first complained to Lord Salisbury, and when
the Prime Minister hesitated about withdrawing Sackville-West, the President
summarily dismissed him. This episode was an important factor in Cleveland's
defeat a few weeks later. While no Western official has joined in the attack on
Goldwater, the foreign press has shown no such restraint. I was asked, while I
was on the West Coast, why the European press had gotten such a distorted
concept of Goldwater and his views. The answer is that foreign correspondents
are quite generally concentrated in Washington and in New York. Their opinions
and most of their news come from the American newspapers that they meet at the
press clubs, cocktail parties, and dinners and from the Eastern American
newspapers. They also absorb a great deal from the bureaucracy in Washington
and at the United Nations in New York. Since all of these sources are heavily
laden with opinions and information slanted toward the Johnson Administration,
their European newspapers reek with anti-Goldwater stuff. ANOTHER BLUNDER A
careful examination of the reporting of our 1952 campaign in the British press
showed not only that it was heavily pro-Stevenson but that up to the day of
election European readers were told that Eisenhower was doomed to defeat. After
the election, the correspondent for the Manchester Guardian burst into
lamentation for poor Adlai Stevenson. I had the privilege of addressing the
Commonwealth Club in San Francisco on the Friday before the recent convention.
One of the questions sent up after my remarks was what the British would think
about a Goldwater nomination. With perhaps unnecessary but sincere emphasis, I
replied: "It's none of their business." This elicited from a normally sober and
sophisticated group of business and professional men not only warm applause
but—of all things from a San Francisco audience—whistling. The British press
has gravely misjudged American opinion many times, not only in the distant past
but more recently. This present hysterical attack upon Goldwater is as great a
blunder as the imposition of the stamp tax. Newsweek, August 10, 1964

==================================================

Title: `NOT BY BREAD ALONE': `THE COMPLETE LIFE'
Date: 1964-08-17
Publication: Newsweek
Text: PERSPECTIVE 'NOT BY BREAD ALONE' BY RAYMOND MOLEY Two short sentences in Senator Goldwater's acceptance address in San Francisco which mentioned "extremism" and "moderation" seem to have diverted most comment from the essential theme of the speech. The key to the speech's meaning and to Goldwater's domestic philosophy is found in the repetition of the expression "the whole man." The first sentence after the preliminaries was a dedication to "the ultimate and undeniable greatness of the whole man." A bit later he argued that government should be the "durable ally of the whole man." And still later he declared that "the whole man" was the reason for "instituting orderly government in the first place." One of the very few among many commentators who perceived the real meaning in the speech, James Reston, said that the Republican candidate had "raised some basic questions which have troubled men since the days of Aristotle." That mention of the ancient philosopher who has been the tutor of great statesmen for centuries was most appropriate. For in phrasing Goldwater's ideological position in this campaign two or three of his assistants were as conscious of Aristotle's political and ethical views as was Jefferson when in the Declaration he substituted Aristotle's word "happiness" for "property" in his trilogy of unalienable rights. 'THE COMPLETE LIFE' Aristotle's comments on statecraft, which are as pertinent today as they were when they were written, held ethics to be indivisible from politics. The real purpose of government is to help the citizen find "the good for man." That "good" he calls "happiness," a supreme value which is a composite of many lesser values in which material means is only one. Happiness is what makes "the complete life." The concept of liberty is implied because the individual is left free to establish his own priority among the various components of his happiness. That is why Jefferson added "in pursuit of." The "whole man," therefore, must be considered in shaping political policies. There is nothing abstruse about this thesis. Any individual can understand it by a bit of self-examination. He may be well housed, well fed, and well clad but still feel incomplete. Material means is only one factor in the good life. "Man liveth not by bread alone." Thus Goldwater has challenged a refrain which has been the obsession of liberal Democrats for 30 years. In the great Depression it was essential to stress the material means for survival. But because political appeals based upon material benefits from government won successive elections and because politicians are the creatures of habit, their "dialogue" centered on material benefits long after the Depression had faded away. Finally, their speeches and platforms have become mere catalogues of government handouts-first bread, then bread and butter, then jam on the side, and finally cheese with the pie. A CYNICAL APPRAISAL These people have not realized how far they have drifted toward Marxian materialism. In 1952, when the Democratic slogan was "You never had it so good," I wrote that this meant "not the good life but the goods of life." President Johnson's campaign slogans will probably be a reiteration of what the Democrats have been saying for decades. He will be the prisoner of a ritual. Instead of stressing the complete life for the whole man, this ritual inherited by the President will suggest a sterile, disciplined, vitamined life on a bleak plateau of uniformity over which ride the inspectors, regulators, and police of a mechanized bureaucracy. The individual's status is that of a statistic-a card in a computer. These appeals limited to the issues of the stomach and purse reveal a cynical appraisal of man. They neglect his loyalty to and pride in his home ties, community relations, ancestry, traditions, religion, and patriotism. He lives for these, too, and for them on occasions invites privation, suffering, and even death. Goldwater's thesis is not that the material needs of the individual should be neglected. He is saying, rather, that the moral and spiritual values inherent in liberty also have their place in political discourse. Newsweek, August 17, 1964
Full Context: PERSPECTIVE 'NOT BY BREAD ALONE' BY RAYMOND MOLEY Two short sentences in
Senator Goldwater's acceptance address in San Francisco which mentioned
"extremism" and "moderation" seem to have diverted most comment from the
essential theme of the speech. The key to the speech's meaning and to
Goldwater's domestic philosophy is found in the repetition of the expression
"the whole man." The first sentence after the preliminaries was a dedication to
"the ultimate and undeniable greatness of the whole man." A bit later he argued
that government should be the "durable ally of the whole man." And still later
he declared that "the whole man" was the reason for "instituting orderly
government in the first place." One of the very few among many commentators who
perceived the real meaning in the speech, James Reston, said that the
Republican candidate had "raised some basic questions which have troubled men
since the days of Aristotle." That mention of the ancient philosopher who has
been the tutor of great statesmen for centuries was most appropriate. For in
phrasing Goldwater's ideological position in this campaign two or three of his
assistants were as conscious of Aristotle's political and ethical views as was
Jefferson when in the Declaration he substituted Aristotle's word "happiness"
for "property" in his trilogy of unalienable rights. 'THE COMPLETE LIFE'
Aristotle's comments on statecraft, which are as pertinent today as they were
when they were written, held ethics to be indivisible from politics. The real
purpose of government is to help the citizen find "the good for man." That
"good" he calls "happiness," a supreme value which is a composite of many
lesser values in which material means is only one. Happiness is what makes "the
complete life." The concept of liberty is implied because the individual is
left free to establish his own priority among the various components of his
happiness. That is why Jefferson added "in pursuit of." The "whole man,"
therefore, must be considered in shaping political policies. There is nothing
abstruse about this thesis. Any individual can understand it by a bit of
self-examination. He may be well housed, well fed, and well clad but still feel
incomplete. Material means is only one factor in the good life. "Man liveth not
by bread alone." Thus Goldwater has challenged a refrain which has been the
obsession of liberal Democrats for 30 years. In the great Depression it was
essential to stress the material means for survival. But because political
appeals based upon material benefits from government won successive elections
and because politicians are the creatures of habit, their "dialogue" centered
on material benefits long after the Depression had faded away. Finally, their
speeches and platforms have become mere catalogues of government handouts-first
bread, then bread and butter, then jam on the side, and finally cheese with the
pie. A CYNICAL APPRAISAL These people have not realized how far they have
drifted toward Marxian materialism. In 1952, when the Democratic slogan was
"You never had it so good," I wrote that this meant "not the good life but the
goods of life." President Johnson's campaign slogans will probably be a
reiteration of what the Democrats have been saying for decades. He will be the
prisoner of a ritual. Instead of stressing the complete life for the whole man,
this ritual inherited by the President will suggest a sterile, disciplined,
vitamined life on a bleak plateau of uniformity over which ride the inspectors,
regulators, and police of a mechanized bureaucracy. The individual's status is
that of a statistic-a card in a computer. These appeals limited to the issues
of the stomach and purse reveal a cynical appraisal of man. They neglect his
loyalty to and pride in his home ties, community relations, ancestry,
traditions, religion, and patriotism. He lives for these, too, and for them on
occasions invites privation, suffering, and even death. Goldwater's thesis is
not that the material needs of the individual should be neglected. He is
saying, rather, that the moral and spiritual values inherent in liberty also
have their place in political discourse. Newsweek, August 17, 1964

==================================================

Title: Goldwater Is Expected to Steal Campaign Spotlight From Johnson
Date: 1964-08-23
Publication: LAT
Text: Goldwater Is Expected to Steal Campaign Spotlight From Johnson BY RAYMOND MOLEY The remarkable fact about this campaign, which will become more and more apparent in the weeks and months ahead, is that Sen. Barry Gold- water, not President Johnson, will occupy the center of the stage. People will be for or against him. Few will be for or against Mr. Johnson. The man from Arizona has color. He typifies force and positive opinions. He creates burning issues. He evokes emotion, passionate dedication or implacable opposition among all Americans. To put it mildly, he is interesting. A great amount of the talk among citizens will be about him. * Johnson is a gray but substantial alternative. Nobody gets excited about him. To those who prefer him, he represents what they believe to be safety, reliability, responsibility. He is the man in the blue serge suit who, except for the fact that he is President, gets lost in a crowd. However he may contrive to win support by his innumerable public appearances, whatever announcements he may make of good news or public benefits, he cannot keep people's minds off what his opponent is, or proposes, or does. He represents an old, well-known establishment which may comfort and satisfy but not stir vivid interest. ★ In the pre-convention fight in the Republican Party it was Goldwater or anti-Goldwater all the way. Lodge, Rockefeller, and finally Scranton were incidental. People voted according to their attitude toward Goldwater. Fear based upon alleged irresponsibility was the sentiment Goldwater's opponents sought to evoke. And now the Democrats are merely taking up this refrain from the defeated Republican aspirants. Nothing has shown this so much as the proceedings before the Democratic platform committee. Secretaries Rusk and McNamara fell into the anti-Goldwater posture. The headlines after their testimony all stressed their attacks on Goldwater. What they said hailing the virtues of their chief was overlooked. If, as seems probable, this goes on, Goldwater's strategy is practically ready-made. Whatever he says will draw their attack. And as time goes on, the impression is created that the only function of Johnson is to save the nation from Goldwater. This rivets attention upon the challenger. What an opposition candidate needs most of all is attention. Once he has won that, he can tell his story, present his views, and hold the center of the stage. This is not the usual pattern of Presidential campaigns. Landon, Willkie, and Dewey were attacking somebody. And the prominence this gave to Roosevelt three times and Truman once was an advantage to them. * Priority of attention may or may not win the election. There have been occasions when the more interesting candidate failed. If Goldwater can, as he seems to be doing now, put Johnson and his administration squarely in a defensive posture, and if in so doing, he can excite the anger and resentment of the President, the anticipated underdog may become more and more formidable. It may, despite polls and predictions, be a close and thus a tremendously exciting contest. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Goldwater Is Expected to Steal Campaign Spotlight From Johnson BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The remarkable fact about this campaign, which will become more and more
apparent in the weeks and months ahead, is that Sen. Barry Gold- water, not
President Johnson, will occupy the center of the stage. People will be for or
against him. Few will be for or against Mr. Johnson. The man from Arizona has
color. He typifies force and positive opinions. He creates burning issues. He
evokes emotion, passionate dedication or implacable opposition among all
Americans. To put it mildly, he is interesting. A great amount of the talk
among citizens will be about him. * Johnson is a gray but substantial
alternative. Nobody gets excited about him. To those who prefer him, he
represents what they believe to be safety, reliability, responsibility. He is
the man in the blue serge suit who, except for the fact that he is President,
gets lost in a crowd. However he may contrive to win support by his innumerable
public appearances, whatever announcements he may make of good news or public
benefits, he cannot keep people's minds off what his opponent is, or proposes,
or does. He represents an old, well-known establishment which may comfort and
satisfy but not stir vivid interest. ★ In the pre-convention fight in the
Republican Party it was Goldwater or anti-Goldwater all the way. Lodge,
Rockefeller, and finally Scranton were incidental. People voted according to
their attitude toward Goldwater. Fear based upon alleged irresponsibility was
the sentiment Goldwater's opponents sought to evoke. And now the Democrats are
merely taking up this refrain from the defeated Republican aspirants. Nothing
has shown this so much as the proceedings before the Democratic platform
committee. Secretaries Rusk and McNamara fell into the anti-Goldwater posture.
The headlines after their testimony all stressed their attacks on Goldwater.
What they said hailing the virtues of their chief was overlooked. If, as seems
probable, this goes on, Goldwater's strategy is practically ready-made.
Whatever he says will draw their attack. And as time goes on, the impression is
created that the only function of Johnson is to save the nation from Goldwater.
This rivets attention upon the challenger. What an opposition candidate needs
most of all is attention. Once he has won that, he can tell his story, present
his views, and hold the center of the stage. This is not the usual pattern of
Presidential campaigns. Landon, Willkie, and Dewey were attacking somebody. And
the prominence this gave to Roosevelt three times and Truman once was an
advantage to them. * Priority of attention may or may not win the election.
There have been occasions when the more interesting candidate failed. If
Goldwater can, as he seems to be doing now, put Johnson and his administration
squarely in a defensive posture, and if in so doing, he can excite the anger
and resentment of the President, the anticipated underdog may become more and
more formidable. It may, despite polls and predictions, be a close and thus a
tremendously exciting contest. Reproduced with permission of the copyright
owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: GOLDWATER'S STAFF-1: A PERSONAL ORGANIZATION
Date: 1964-08-24
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **PERSPECTIVE** **GOLDWATER'S STAFF—I** BY RAYMOND MOLEY Many factors play a part in winning or losing an election. Some of these are unexpected events which cannot be anticipated or planned. But the major element in political success is organization. Political organization is such a dry, prosaic subject that much of its importance is lost in more colorful discourse about personalities and issues. Last October when Senator Goldwater saw the time approaching when he must decide whether or not to seek the Republican nomination, he turned to the creation of an organization to help him. When a potential Presidential candidate belongs to the party which is not in power in the Federal government, this task is much more difficult. Roosevelt in 1936, 1940, and 1944, Truman in 1948, Stevenson in 1952, and Nixon in 1960 had a great advantage. Their helpers were already in office equipped with all the innumerable facts necessary to campaign debating. In 1952 Eisenhower had a similar advantage, for he had been U.S. Chief of Staff and NATO commander in the Truman years. But Goldwater's problem was like that faced by Roosevelt in 1932 and Kennedy in 1960. He had to seek his helpers from outside the government. Also, like Roosevelt and Kennedy, he faced a hard fight for the nomination. **A PERSONAL ORGANIZATION** Goldwater, like Roosevelt and Kennedy, created a highly personal organization. A candidate for the nomination cannot depend upon help from the national committee of his party because the national committee and its chairman must be neutral before the national convention chooses the party's candidate. The Roosevelt and Kennedy staff members, when selected, were relatively unknown in national politics. They were friends and supporters of the candidate and dedicated to his cause. In April Goldwater's staff members were, it was said, "amateurs." I said this in NEWSWEEK:  "The essential element in this organization—as it was in the instances of Roosevelt and Kennedy in other years—is that these people thoroughly understand their candidate. They know his habits and moods, his friends—personal and political—and his previous methods in campaigns for the Senate. Above all, they have his complete confidence. "These factors count more heavily as assets for political success than previous experience in national campaigns. As the number of Goldwater-pledged delegates mounts in the weeks ahead, this sort of management will pay excellent dividends." This observation was amply justified in the light of what happened at the San Francisco convention. **TWO GROUPS NECESSARY** At that time in April, Goldwater's chief of staff was Denison Kitchel, a lawyer friend in Phoenix. His chief field men were Richard Kleindienst, also an Arizona friend, and F. Clifton White. There had been notable preliminary work by Peter O'Donnell Jr., Texas state chairman, who had started a draft-Goldwater organization. There was also John E. Grenier of Alabama, whose assignment was the lining up of delegates in eleven Southern states. The capabilities of these "amateurs" in getting firmly pledged delegates amazed and overwhelmed the stop-Goldwater forces when the chips were down in San Francisco. They became "pros" overnight. A basic necessity in forming an organization was first demonstrated by Roosevelt in 1932. This is the sharp division of responsibility between the group whose job is to gather delegates, cement relations with state politicians, and to carry on nationwide propaganda, and the group which is charged with gathering and processing material on the issues—material which is to be used in the candidate's speeches and public statements. For convenience I call these groups respectively the "political" group and the "policy" group. Each group reports directly to the candidate. It is a great mistake to mingle the activities of these two groups—a mistake which greatly hampered the effectiveness of several candidates in the past. In another article I shall describe the nature and method of operation of Goldwater's "policy" group, whose labors will loom large in the campaign which is to come. Newsweek, August 24, 1964
Full Context: **PERSPECTIVE** **GOLDWATER'S STAFF—I** BY RAYMOND MOLEY Many factors play a
part in winning or losing an election. Some of these are unexpected events
which cannot be anticipated or planned. But the major element in political
success is organization. Political organization is such a dry, prosaic subject
that much of its importance is lost in more colorful discourse about
personalities and issues. Last October when Senator Goldwater saw the time
approaching when he must decide whether or not to seek the Republican
nomination, he turned to the creation of an organization to help him. When a
potential Presidential candidate belongs to the party which is not in power in
the Federal government, this task is much more difficult. Roosevelt in 1936,
1940, and 1944, Truman in 1948, Stevenson in 1952, and Nixon in 1960 had a
great advantage. Their helpers were already in office equipped with all the
innumerable facts necessary to campaign debating. In 1952 Eisenhower had a
similar advantage, for he had been U.S. Chief of Staff and NATO commander in
the Truman years. But Goldwater's problem was like that faced by Roosevelt in
1932 and Kennedy in 1960. He had to seek his helpers from outside the
government. Also, like Roosevelt and Kennedy, he faced a hard fight for the
nomination. **A PERSONAL ORGANIZATION** Goldwater, like Roosevelt and Kennedy,
created a highly personal organization. A candidate for the nomination cannot
depend upon help from the national committee of his party because the national
committee and its chairman must be neutral before the national convention
chooses the party's candidate. The Roosevelt and Kennedy staff members, when
selected, were relatively unknown in national politics. They were friends and
supporters of the candidate and dedicated to his cause. In April Goldwater's
staff members were, it was said, "amateurs." I said this in NEWSWEEK: "The
essential element in this organization—as it was in the instances of Roosevelt
and Kennedy in other years—is that these people thoroughly understand their
candidate. They know his habits and moods, his friends—personal and
political—and his previous methods in campaigns for the Senate. Above all, they
have his complete confidence. "These factors count more heavily as assets for
political success than previous experience in national campaigns. As the number
of Goldwater-pledged delegates mounts in the weeks ahead, this sort of
management will pay excellent dividends." This observation was amply justified
in the light of what happened at the San Francisco convention. **TWO GROUPS
NECESSARY** At that time in April, Goldwater's chief of staff was Denison
Kitchel, a lawyer friend in Phoenix. His chief field men were Richard
Kleindienst, also an Arizona friend, and F. Clifton White. There had been
notable preliminary work by Peter O'Donnell Jr., Texas state chairman, who had
started a draft-Goldwater organization. There was also John E. Grenier of
Alabama, whose assignment was the lining up of delegates in eleven Southern
states. The capabilities of these "amateurs" in getting firmly pledged
delegates amazed and overwhelmed the stop-Goldwater forces when the chips were
down in San Francisco. They became "pros" overnight. A basic necessity in
forming an organization was first demonstrated by Roosevelt in 1932. This is
the sharp division of responsibility between the group whose job is to gather
delegates, cement relations with state politicians, and to carry on nationwide
propaganda, and the group which is charged with gathering and processing
material on the issues—material which is to be used in the candidate's speeches
and public statements. For convenience I call these groups respectively the
"political" group and the "policy" group. Each group reports directly to the
candidate. It is a great mistake to mingle the activities of these two groups—a
mistake which greatly hampered the effectiveness of several candidates in the
past. In another article I shall describe the nature and method of operation of
Goldwater's "policy" group, whose labors will loom large in the campaign which
is to come. Newsweek, August 24, 1964

==================================================

Title: GOLDWATER'S STAFF-II: THE SPECIALISTS
Date: 1964-08-31
Publication: Newsweek
Text: PERSPECTIVE GOLDWATER'S STAFF—II BY RAYMOND MOLEY noted in last week's article that candidate Goldwater's working staff is divided into two distinct groups. One of these I have called the "political" group, which before the convention was concerned with maintaining state-by-state contacts and gathering pledged delegates and which from now on is concerned with gathering votes. The other, called the "policy" group, gathers material on the issues, and prepares it for the candidate. The general director of the latter group is Edward A. McCabe, who with one or two associates mobilizes the necessary material from a large pool of available talent and processes it for the use of the candidate as he faces the nation's audiences. (Mc- Cabe has recently been attached to the National Committee.) The necessity for such a group arose about 40 years ago when radio and other new media of communica- tion began to provide nationwide au- diences for a Presidential candidate. In earlier days a candidate could repeat much the same speech, with some variations, to many local au- diences. But when national audiences became available and, as in this year, the issues became more numerous and complicated, the necessity for teamwork appeared. And a vast amount of material and facts were necessary which had to be sifted and worked over for the candidate's speeches and public statements. THE SPECIALISTS This is not what is crudely called "ghostwriting" or even "speechwrit- ing" by anonymous helpers. In col- laboration with the candidate it is organized effort by 100 or more spe- cialists in every field in which issues are drawn with the opposition. These specialists are not all gathered together in one place. There may be professors in their studies in many universities, scientists in their laboratories; retired military men, former Foreign Service officers, and also certain members of the House and Senate. But no complete consensus is demanded among these specialists. What is essential is that they believe in the candidate and generally support his cause. There have been several articles about Goldwater's helpers which have stressed the presence of pro- fessors in his staff work. There are, as I have noted, many others out- side academic life. But the professors who have been mentioned are fore- most authorities in their fields. Among them, Columbia, Chicago, Harvard, Michigan, Stanford, Notre Dame, Pennsylvania, and Virginia are repre- sented. In past years, notably during the Kennedy Administration, the im- pression has been created that all "eggheads" are Democratic and lib- eral. But while most academic men in the social sciences are liberal, there are outstanding exceptions, many of whom are among Goldwater's ad- visers. Since they are a minority in their faculties, they are essentially individualistic and are attracted to Goldwater because he has stressed in- dividualism as the basic American principle of life and progress. THE END PRODUCT Since a major issue of the cam- paign will be our defense strength and foreign policy, Goldwater's own expert knowledge and acquaintances will be largely drawn upon. Among them are several who have made a specialty of the scientific and prac- tical aspects of defense. There are some who have made a reputation in the study of Communism and its im- pact upon our foreign policy; With these specialists, McCabe and his associates maintain contact personally by telephone or mail or by occasional gatherings in Washing- ton. After Goldwater passes upon the material which McCabe has gathered and summarized for his use, one or two writers prepare preliminary drafts for speeches. This is a major task, for there is a vast difference in style and composition between what is to be heard and what is to be read by the public. Finally, Goldwater himself works over the product, impressing upon it his personal speech characteristics and style. The end product in the last analysis must reflect his own per- sonality, and its major theme must be his own belief of what must be decided by the voters in this cam- paign. Only in this way does any speech carry the conviction so essen- tial to winning an election. Newsweek, August 31, 1964
Full Context: PERSPECTIVE GOLDWATER'S STAFF—II BY RAYMOND MOLEY noted in last week's article
that candidate Goldwater's working staff is divided into two distinct groups.
One of these I have called the "political" group, which before the convention
was concerned with maintaining state-by-state contacts and gathering pledged
delegates and which from now on is concerned with gathering votes. The other,
called the "policy" group, gathers material on the issues, and prepares it for
the candidate. The general director of the latter group is Edward A. McCabe,
who with one or two associates mobilizes the necessary material from a large
pool of available talent and processes it for the use of the candidate as he
faces the nation's audiences. (Mc- Cabe has recently been attached to the
National Committee.) The necessity for such a group arose about 40 years ago
when radio and other new media of communica- tion began to provide nationwide
au- diences for a Presidential candidate. In earlier days a candidate could
repeat much the same speech, with some variations, to many local au- diences.
But when national audiences became available and, as in this year, the issues
became more numerous and complicated, the necessity for teamwork appeared. And
a vast amount of material and facts were necessary which had to be sifted and
worked over for the candidate's speeches and public statements. THE SPECIALISTS
This is not what is crudely called "ghostwriting" or even "speechwrit- ing" by
anonymous helpers. In col- laboration with the candidate it is organized effort
by 100 or more spe- cialists in every field in which issues are drawn with the
opposition. These specialists are not all gathered together in one place. There
may be professors in their studies in many universities, scientists in their
laboratories; retired military men, former Foreign Service officers, and also
certain members of the House and Senate. But no complete consensus is demanded
among these specialists. What is essential is that they believe in the
candidate and generally support his cause. There have been several articles
about Goldwater's helpers which have stressed the presence of pro- fessors in
his staff work. There are, as I have noted, many others out- side academic
life. But the professors who have been mentioned are fore- most authorities in
their fields. Among them, Columbia, Chicago, Harvard, Michigan, Stanford, Notre
Dame, Pennsylvania, and Virginia are repre- sented. In past years, notably
during the Kennedy Administration, the im- pression has been created that all
"eggheads" are Democratic and lib- eral. But while most academic men in the
social sciences are liberal, there are outstanding exceptions, many of whom are
among Goldwater's ad- visers. Since they are a minority in their faculties,
they are essentially individualistic and are attracted to Goldwater because he
has stressed in- dividualism as the basic American principle of life and
progress. THE END PRODUCT Since a major issue of the cam- paign will be our
defense strength and foreign policy, Goldwater's own expert knowledge and
acquaintances will be largely drawn upon. Among them are several who have made
a specialty of the scientific and prac- tical aspects of defense. There are
some who have made a reputation in the study of Communism and its im- pact upon
our foreign policy; With these specialists, McCabe and his associates maintain
contact personally by telephone or mail or by occasional gatherings in Washing-
ton. After Goldwater passes upon the material which McCabe has gathered and
summarized for his use, one or two writers prepare preliminary drafts for
speeches. This is a major task, for there is a vast difference in style and
composition between what is to be heard and what is to be read by the public.
Finally, Goldwater himself works over the product, impressing upon it his
personal speech characteristics and style. The end product in the last analysis
must reflect his own per- sonality, and its major theme must be his own belief
of what must be decided by the voters in this cam- paign. Only in this way does
any speech carry the conviction so essen- tial to winning an election.
Newsweek, August 31, 1964

==================================================

Title: Dissension, Conservative Party Peril GOP Chances in New York
Date: 1964-09-06
Publication: LAT
Text: Dissension, Conservative Party Peril GOP Chances in New York BY RAYMOND MOLEY Gov. Nelson Rockefeller has said with no incon- siderable pride that the Republican Party in his state is as well fixed as it is in Kansas. The Republi- can Party in New York has the governorship, it controls both houses of the Legislature, and it has two U.S. Senators and most of the congressional seats. This, however, is a very deceptive picture of Re- publican strength in the Empire State in 1964. For its prospects in this cam- paign are overcast with large dark areas, and only here and there brightened by a touch of sunshine. ★ The most serious factor in the situation is the confused state of mind of thousands of normally Republican voters. If their ideological convictions are conservative, they face a number of vital questions. Unless they can find an- swers to their questions, many will, as one man said recently in a private conversation, be on the golf course on election day. Others will seek Repub- lican unity in response to the pleas of former Vice President Richard Nixon, former Gov. Thomas De- wey and Gov. Rockefeller. Still others will split their tickets and vote for Pres- ident Johnson and Sen. Hubert Humphrey at the national level and Sen. Kenneth Keating at the state level. Still others are solidly for Sen. Barry Goldwater and Rep. Wil- liam Miller and will, be- cause of the appeal for party unity, vote the straight Republican ticket. ★ The ensuing Republican confusion would be great enough in any event, but the young people who organized the Conserva- tive Party have added a further element of disu- nity. Two years ago, when this new party was orga- nized and secured a place on the ballot, it seemed to me a highly inadvisable political adventure. Its purpose was apparently to muster opposition to Gov. Rockefeller and Sen. Ja- cob Javits, who were running that year, to cut into their voting strength and thus to demonstrate popular opposition to the liberal policies of these two gentlemen. The Con- servatives, however, said they were creating a counterforce to the New York Liberal Party which, because of the threat it presents, moves the De- mocratic Party further toward ultra-liberalism. But the Liberal Party is in everything but name a Democratic satellite. It endorses Democratic candidates and it helps to elect Democrats. The Conservative Party, on the other hand, has achieved no such working ar- rangement with the Re- publican Party. It still remains a force of inde- terminate size which draws votes from Repub- lican candidates and thus contributes to the election of Democrats. It seems to me that after the nomination of Sen. Goldwater for President the New York Conserva- tive Party lost the major reason for its existence. But it persists in main- taining its identity and has nominated candidates for a number of offices, in- cluding the U.S. senator- ship. Also, the presence of its candidates on the ticket will no doubt intensify the efforts of Sen. Keating and others to draw ideological lines of dissent from those of Goldwater and Miller. Thus, the persistence of the Conservative Party would tend to diminish any hope that Goldwater and Miller can carry New York state in November. It is true that the Re- publican Party, by deny- ing the Conservative Party the right to list the duly selected Republican electors on its ticket, acted unwisely. For Rockefeller, the titular head of his party in New York, has declared his support of Goldwater and Miller. It would redound to Rocke- feller's credit if Goldwater and Miller could carry the state or at least make a creditable showing in the election. If Keating and other Republican candidates persist in their detach- ment from the national ticket, the result will be a state Republican Party quite separate from the national body. This de- tachment virtually con- cedes New York's elec- toral votes to the Demo- cratic national ticket. ★ Perhaps these two Re- publican parties will con- tinue after the election; perhaps not. But this is the situation which confronts New York Republicans this year. And it is most unfortunate for the two- party system that calmer judgments have not pre- vailed on all sides—more reasonable attitude by the Conservative Party, by the New York Republican Party and by Sen. Keating himself. Goldwater has never "written off" New York as fighting ground. But for reasons beyond his control he now must win enough of the 49 remaining states to get a majority in this year's election. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Dissension, Conservative Party Peril GOP Chances in New York BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Gov. Nelson Rockefeller has said with no incon- siderable pride that the
Republican Party in his state is as well fixed as it is in Kansas. The Republi-
can Party in New York has the governorship, it controls both houses of the
Legislature, and it has two U.S. Senators and most of the congressional seats.
This, however, is a very deceptive picture of Re- publican strength in the
Empire State in 1964. For its prospects in this cam- paign are overcast with
large dark areas, and only here and there brightened by a touch of sunshine. ★
The most serious factor in the situation is the confused state of mind of
thousands of normally Republican voters. If their ideological convictions are
conservative, they face a number of vital questions. Unless they can find an-
swers to their questions, many will, as one man said recently in a private
conversation, be on the golf course on election day. Others will seek Repub-
lican unity in response to the pleas of former Vice President Richard Nixon,
former Gov. Thomas De- wey and Gov. Rockefeller. Still others will split their
tickets and vote for Pres- ident Johnson and Sen. Hubert Humphrey at the
national level and Sen. Kenneth Keating at the state level. Still others are
solidly for Sen. Barry Goldwater and Rep. Wil- liam Miller and will, be- cause
of the appeal for party unity, vote the straight Republican ticket. ★ The
ensuing Republican confusion would be great enough in any event, but the young
people who organized the Conserva- tive Party have added a further element of
disu- nity. Two years ago, when this new party was orga- nized and secured a
place on the ballot, it seemed to me a highly inadvisable political adventure.
Its purpose was apparently to muster opposition to Gov. Rockefeller and Sen.
Ja- cob Javits, who were running that year, to cut into their voting strength
and thus to demonstrate popular opposition to the liberal policies of these two
gentlemen. The Con- servatives, however, said they were creating a counterforce
to the New York Liberal Party which, because of the threat it presents, moves
the De- mocratic Party further toward ultra-liberalism. But the Liberal Party
is in everything but name a Democratic satellite. It endorses Democratic
candidates and it helps to elect Democrats. The Conservative Party, on the
other hand, has achieved no such working ar- rangement with the Re- publican
Party. It still remains a force of inde- terminate size which draws votes from
Repub- lican candidates and thus contributes to the election of Democrats. It
seems to me that after the nomination of Sen. Goldwater for President the New
York Conserva- tive Party lost the major reason for its existence. But it
persists in main- taining its identity and has nominated candidates for a
number of offices, in- cluding the U.S. senator- ship. Also, the presence of
its candidates on the ticket will no doubt intensify the efforts of Sen.
Keating and others to draw ideological lines of dissent from those of Goldwater
and Miller. Thus, the persistence of the Conservative Party would tend to
diminish any hope that Goldwater and Miller can carry New York state in
November. It is true that the Re- publican Party, by deny- ing the Conservative
Party the right to list the duly selected Republican electors on its ticket,
acted unwisely. For Rockefeller, the titular head of his party in New York, has
declared his support of Goldwater and Miller. It would redound to Rocke-
feller's credit if Goldwater and Miller could carry the state or at least make
a creditable showing in the election. If Keating and other Republican
candidates persist in their detach- ment from the national ticket, the result
will be a state Republican Party quite separate from the national body. This
de- tachment virtually con- cedes New York's elec- toral votes to the Demo-
cratic national ticket. ★ Perhaps these two Re- publican parties will con-
tinue after the election; perhaps not. But this is the situation which
confronts New York Republicans this year. And it is most unfortunate for the
two- party system that calmer judgments have not pre- vailed on all sides—more
reasonable attitude by the Conservative Party, by the New York Republican Party
and by Sen. Keating himself. Goldwater has never "written off" New York as
fighting ground. But for reasons beyond his control he now must win enough of
the 49 remaining states to get a majority in this year's election. Reproduced
with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without
permission.

==================================================

Title: INCOME WITH FREEDOM: ROOSEVELT'S PLAN
Date: 1964-09-21
Publication: Newsweek
Text: PERSPECTIVE INCOME WITH FREEDOM BY RAYMOND MOLEY In this campaign, as in the Republican fight for the nomination, Barry Goldwater will be assailed as an enemy of the social-security system. An appraisal of the facts will show that Lyndon Johnson is the one who presents a real threat to a system which is the keystone of the material lives of millions of Americans. The President, with the intensity of a child demanding a new toy, has forced a tired Congress at the weary end of a long session and in the purple emotion of a national campaign to act upon medicare. This is not an emergent and critical need. It is a decision which perverts and substantially destroys an institution which has stood for almost 30 years. I cannot in this short space reiterate the countless arguments against this plan. Rather, I shall limit myself to the origins of this system, its purpose, and its place in our Federal government. In the spring of 1934 President Roosevelt told me of his decision to launch an insurance plan for old-age pensions and unemployment compensation. After outlining his plan, he asked me to write a message to Congress on the subject. I did so, and the message with some minor changes went to Congress on June 8, 1934. ROOSEVELT'S PLAN The plan was to provide, through contributions from employees and employers, pensions to provide security against the "hazards and vicissitudes" of old age and unemployment. This plan, according to the message, should be administered through cooperation between the states and the Federal government (a concept now embodied in the Kerr-Mills Act). The President also told me that the reserves of the system should be invested in municipal, state, and high-grade corporate bonds. (Congress decreed instead that the "trust fund" should contain only Federal IOU's.) In later legislation unemployment compensation has followed the state-Federal pattern, but old-age pensions are wholly Federal. Subsequent to the submission of this preliminary message to Congress, President Roosevelt appointed an advisory committee, on which I served and which worked on a plan during the year which followed. In the years since the passage of the original act, the base of support has been progressively broadened, the tax increased, and the pensions lifted to keep pace with inflation. In 1956 disability support was added for people over 50, and in 1960 that age limit was lowered to 24. In 1958 children of the disabled were provided for. Many other welfare measures have been set up, but payments for these are from general taxation and they are administered separately from the pension system. SERVICES, NOT MONEY Thus, the essential nature of the OASDI is that elderly people receive an income. It is most important to note that the recipients of these pensions are free to dispose of what they receive to meet their varied wants and needs, including insurance payments of various kinds. I believe in this system and also believe that as costs rise the pensions should be increased. But the essence is that those receiving this income should be free to choose what they will buy with what they receive. Through this freedom the recipients retain their individuality and, most important, their human dignity. The principle projected by medicare attached to social security is that old people cannot be trusted to make their own decisions in spending their income. Government would tell them that they should have a specified service. Beyond this, there may well be additions to social security for many other living needs and in the end the payments will not be real income at all, but an array of free services. The elderly will be in a straitjacket in which individual discretion is lost. And the pension-income system will vanish in a vast welfarism. Thus, the President, the 44 Democrats, and the five anti-Goldwater Republicans who provided the necessary majority in the Senate have supported this basic change. They are the ones, not Senator Goldwater, who would destroy the social-security system as we have known it since its origins. If social security is to be destroyed, it will be because it has been overloaded with purposes which it was never intended to serve. Newsweek, September 21, 1964
Full Context: PERSPECTIVE INCOME WITH FREEDOM BY RAYMOND MOLEY In this campaign, as in the
Republican fight for the nomination, Barry Goldwater will be assailed as an
enemy of the social-security system. An appraisal of the facts will show that
Lyndon Johnson is the one who presents a real threat to a system which is the
keystone of the material lives of millions of Americans. The President, with
the intensity of a child demanding a new toy, has forced a tired Congress at
the weary end of a long session and in the purple emotion of a national
campaign to act upon medicare. This is not an emergent and critical need. It is
a decision which perverts and substantially destroys an institution which has
stood for almost 30 years. I cannot in this short space reiterate the countless
arguments against this plan. Rather, I shall limit myself to the origins of
this system, its purpose, and its place in our Federal government. In the
spring of 1934 President Roosevelt told me of his decision to launch an
insurance plan for old-age pensions and unemployment compensation. After
outlining his plan, he asked me to write a message to Congress on the subject.
I did so, and the message with some minor changes went to Congress on June 8,
1934. ROOSEVELT'S PLAN The plan was to provide, through contributions from
employees and employers, pensions to provide security against the "hazards and
vicissitudes" of old age and unemployment. This plan, according to the message,
should be administered through cooperation between the states and the Federal
government (a concept now embodied in the Kerr-Mills Act). The President also
told me that the reserves of the system should be invested in municipal, state,
and high-grade corporate bonds. (Congress decreed instead that the "trust fund"
should contain only Federal IOU's.) In later legislation unemployment
compensation has followed the state-Federal pattern, but old-age pensions are
wholly Federal. Subsequent to the submission of this preliminary message to
Congress, President Roosevelt appointed an advisory committee, on which I
served and which worked on a plan during the year which followed. In the years
since the passage of the original act, the base of support has been
progressively broadened, the tax increased, and the pensions lifted to keep
pace with inflation. In 1956 disability support was added for people over 50,
and in 1960 that age limit was lowered to 24. In 1958 children of the disabled
were provided for. Many other welfare measures have been set up, but payments
for these are from general taxation and they are administered separately from
the pension system. SERVICES, NOT MONEY Thus, the essential nature of the OASDI
is that elderly people receive an income. It is most important to note that the
recipients of these pensions are free to dispose of what they receive to meet
their varied wants and needs, including insurance payments of various kinds. I
believe in this system and also believe that as costs rise the pensions should
be increased. But the essence is that those receiving this income should be
free to choose what they will buy with what they receive. Through this freedom
the recipients retain their individuality and, most important, their human
dignity. The principle projected by medicare attached to social security is
that old people cannot be trusted to make their own decisions in spending their
income. Government would tell them that they should have a specified service.
Beyond this, there may well be additions to social security for many other
living needs and in the end the payments will not be real income at all, but an
array of free services. The elderly will be in a straitjacket in which
individual discretion is lost. And the pension-income system will vanish in a
vast welfarism. Thus, the President, the 44 Democrats, and the five
anti-Goldwater Republicans who provided the necessary majority in the Senate
have supported this basic change. They are the ones, not Senator Goldwater, who
would destroy the social-security system as we have known it since its origins.
If social security is to be destroyed, it will be because it has been
overloaded with purposes which it was never intended to serve. Newsweek,
September 21, 1964

==================================================

Title: WHO'S REALLY FOR LBJ?: NO POINTING WITH PRIDE
Date: 1964-10-12
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **PERSPECTIVE** **WHO'S REALLY FOR LBJ?** **BY RAYMOND MOLEY** Last week I found it necessary to part with a bad tooth. After the Novocain had been administered, there was that dread pause while the stuff was performing its merciful mission of insensibility and before the short pull (euphemistically called the "evulsion"). In that waiting moment the dentist asked: "You don't think Goldwater can win, do you?" My muffled plea was that politics be adjourned during the emergency. But it seems that most of the peo- ple with whom I have had contacts during the past months begin the inquisition with some such comment as: "I am a Republican but I can't vote for Goldwater." After I have replied with some- thing to the effect that I don't con- sider the Republican candidate to be dangerous but a very refreshing in- dividual who is raising questions which have needed to be asked for many years, my respondents have raised eyebrows and show a faraway look in their eyes. And so I have resolved to counter such provocative questions with this response: "Just why are you voting for the Johnson-Humphrey ticket?" I anticipate that the conversation will then turn to the World Series, pro- fessional football, the Warren report, or the weather. **NO POINTING WITH PRIDE** This campaign is not a dialogue but a monologue. Even those who are paid to inform and enlighten pub- lic opinion, including some of the newspapers which have switched their traditional allegiance, dedicate their discourse to the challenger rather than the champion. The Presi- dent himself seems unwilling to stand on the record, probably because that would require him to share the credit with his predecessor, who originated most of the legislative measures he has supported. Instead of pointing with pride, he seems satisfied with hurling contemptuous characteriza- tions at an opponent whom he never mentions by name and also with rail- ing at extremism, which he never seems willing to define. Is this negative tone due to the fact that the Johnson supporters are ashamed of their candidate? If they are willing to give over the conduct of the republic's affairs to the Presi- dent and his prospective heir ap- parent, they should in this campaign be asked a considerable number of pertinent questions. It is no secret that in and around Washington, even within the White House coterie, people who were gen- uinely attracted by JFK have limited respect, not to say a rather contemp- tuous attitude toward his successor. They don't enjoy his ear-shattering shouting. They don't attempt to de- fend Mr. Johnson's wheeling and dealing with vital issues, his tolerance for the ethics of his intimates, his zigzag voting record in the Senate, his crude philosophy of government, his reckless willingness to gamble with the credit of the United States through half-baked handouts, his blind belief that he can compromise irreconcilable interests at home, and his irrational faith that he can resolve the cold war with platitudes. And so they devote their attention almost en- tirely to abuse of Goldwater. **GOLDWATER'S QUESTIONS** They scream when Goldwater sug- gests an examination and revalua- tion of the social-security system, which though properly conceived in the beginning will sometime founder with the weight of what has been and may be imposed upon it. Now that prosperity blesses the Tennessee Valley, what is wrong about returning some of the functions of the TVA to the Federal departments in Washing- ton where they belong? If a Ken- nedy-Johnson tax cut was right in 1964, what is wrong with progres- sive cuts based upon economies in civil expenditures? Must we go on for- ever with the no-win policies abroad which began when Democratic Ad- ministrations surrendered the fruits of victory in Europe, gave China to the Communists, and frustrated MacAr- thur's plan to win the war in Korea? These are some of the vital ques- tions Goldwater has raised, questions which the national interest demands. There are no answers. Only the tire- some reiteration that the country must be saved from Goldwater. But it will be to his everlasting credit that he has raised them, with a singular disregard of their political conse- quences to his own fortunes. Newsweek, October 12, 1964
Full Context: **PERSPECTIVE** **WHO'S REALLY FOR LBJ?** **BY RAYMOND MOLEY** Last week I
found it necessary to part with a bad tooth. After the Novocain had been
administered, there was that dread pause while the stuff was performing its
merciful mission of insensibility and before the short pull (euphemistically
called the "evulsion"). In that waiting moment the dentist asked: "You don't
think Goldwater can win, do you?" My muffled plea was that politics be
adjourned during the emergency. But it seems that most of the peo- ple with
whom I have had contacts during the past months begin the inquisition with some
such comment as: "I am a Republican but I can't vote for Goldwater." After I
have replied with some- thing to the effect that I don't con- sider the
Republican candidate to be dangerous but a very refreshing in- dividual who is
raising questions which have needed to be asked for many years, my respondents
have raised eyebrows and show a faraway look in their eyes. And so I have
resolved to counter such provocative questions with this response: "Just why
are you voting for the Johnson-Humphrey ticket?" I anticipate that the
conversation will then turn to the World Series, pro- fessional football, the
Warren report, or the weather. **NO POINTING WITH PRIDE** This campaign is not
a dialogue but a monologue. Even those who are paid to inform and enlighten
pub- lic opinion, including some of the newspapers which have switched their
traditional allegiance, dedicate their discourse to the challenger rather than
the champion. The Presi- dent himself seems unwilling to stand on the record,
probably because that would require him to share the credit with his
predecessor, who originated most of the legislative measures he has supported.
Instead of pointing with pride, he seems satisfied with hurling contemptuous
characteriza- tions at an opponent whom he never mentions by name and also with
rail- ing at extremism, which he never seems willing to define. Is this
negative tone due to the fact that the Johnson supporters are ashamed of their
candidate? If they are willing to give over the conduct of the republic's
affairs to the Presi- dent and his prospective heir ap- parent, they should in
this campaign be asked a considerable number of pertinent questions. It is no
secret that in and around Washington, even within the White House coterie,
people who were gen- uinely attracted by JFK have limited respect, not to say a
rather contemp- tuous attitude toward his successor. They don't enjoy his
ear-shattering shouting. They don't attempt to de- fend Mr. Johnson's wheeling
and dealing with vital issues, his tolerance for the ethics of his intimates,
his zigzag voting record in the Senate, his crude philosophy of government, his
reckless willingness to gamble with the credit of the United States through
half-baked handouts, his blind belief that he can compromise irreconcilable
interests at home, and his irrational faith that he can resolve the cold war
with platitudes. And so they devote their attention almost en- tirely to abuse
of Goldwater. **GOLDWATER'S QUESTIONS** They scream when Goldwater sug- gests
an examination and revalua- tion of the social-security system, which though
properly conceived in the beginning will sometime founder with the weight of
what has been and may be imposed upon it. Now that prosperity blesses the
Tennessee Valley, what is wrong about returning some of the functions of the
TVA to the Federal departments in Washing- ton where they belong? If a Ken-
nedy-Johnson tax cut was right in 1964, what is wrong with progres- sive cuts
based upon economies in civil expenditures? Must we go on for- ever with the
no-win policies abroad which began when Democratic Ad- ministrations
surrendered the fruits of victory in Europe, gave China to the Communists, and
frustrated MacAr- thur's plan to win the war in Korea? These are some of the
vital ques- tions Goldwater has raised, questions which the national interest
demands. There are no answers. Only the tire- some reiteration that the country
must be saved from Goldwater. But it will be to his everlasting credit that he
has raised them, with a singular disregard of their political conse- quences to
his own fortunes. Newsweek, October 12, 1964

==================================================

Title: THE ISSUE OF MORALITY: 'MORAL ARISTOCRACY'
Date: 1964-10-19
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **THE ISSUE OF MORALITY** **BY RAYMOND MOLEY** At this stage of the campaign, when the critics of Senator Goldwater have long passed the limits of reason, it seems that anything the Republican candidates say is twisted to an argument that they should not only be defeated but crushed. If Goldwater says that black is black and white is white, they cry out that he has not considered gray. When he suggested that there should be room in the social-security system for a person who chooses to "contract out" of the compulsory tax and provide for his own security, we were asked to believe that freedom is bad. When Goldwater calls attention to the moral failures in our society and suggests that a President can do something about this admitted condition, a learned critic calls attention to the superficial fact that the President is not a local policeman. Since Goldwater is a disturber of the complacency that characterizes American opinion, the Republican candidate is called irresponsible and dangerous. But whoever has made a serious study of the significance of the Presidency knows that the man who holds that office can be a tremendous moral influence. Before he was President, Woodrow Wilson wrote that the President's office is whatever "he has the sagacity and force to make it." He can, if he chooses, make of himself the conscience of the nation "not only to lead it but to form it to his own views." **"MORAL ARISTOCRACY"** Wilson in 1908 no doubt had in mind Presidents who had served in his lifetime. Grover Cleveland came to office first in a national revolt against what had become public, business, and official immorality. And he taught and impressed upon the country the paramount need for personal and official reform. McKinley, the whipping boy of modern liberalism, promised sound money and made good his promise. Theodore Roosevelt lectured and guided Americans on almost every aspect of life, from personal hygiene to the sanctity of international agreements. And Wilson himself during his Presidency made the "preaching" function of his office most important. In a new and profoundly thought-ful book, "The Foundations of Morality" (398 pages, Van Nostrand, $9.95), my NEWSWEEK colleague, Henry Hazlitt, discusses what he calls a "moral aristocracy." He says that anyone who commands attention exerts a moral influence upon the millions who know his name. He may be a scientist, philosopher, or industrial pioneer. But while he may not realize it, he is perforce in the business of building national character. Also, he may hold an exalted public office, and because what he says commands attention he can shape individual behavior and the actions of those who are charged at lower levels with law enforcement. On one occasion TR very effectively lectured police chiefs on the responsibilities of their office. **THE POWER OF CHOICE** From the beginning, Goldwater has drawn the moral question into three sharp issues which distinguish him from his opponent. He says that the President must be the moral master and censor of his official household. He has also made clear that the President's vast influence can build more responsibility and efficiency into local and state law enforcement. But what is more important still, he challenges the collectivist ethic which holds that individual character and behavior are determined by the material environment. Lyndon Johnson may not be aware of the term, but his whole attitude toward social improvement is in line with the sociological concept called environmentalism. People are bad because they are ill-fed, ill-housed, and ill-clothed. Give them material things with money exacted from others or obligations passed on to future generations, and goodness will prevail. Goldwater is insisting upon what Adam Smith called the "man within." Material splendor is neither the creator nor the concomitant nor the promise of individual character. A Johnson Administration can create these vast material works in a rich country. But unless individual freedom is assured, there will certainly be moral decay. For, as Hazlitt says in another place in his book, "Only to the extent that men have the power of choice can they be said to choose the good." Newsweek, October 19, 1964
Full Context: **THE ISSUE OF MORALITY** **BY RAYMOND MOLEY** At this stage of the campaign,
when the critics of Senator Goldwater have long passed the limits of reason, it
seems that anything the Republican candidates say is twisted to an argument
that they should not only be defeated but crushed. If Goldwater says that black
is black and white is white, they cry out that he has not considered gray. When
he suggested that there should be room in the social-security system for a
person who chooses to "contract out" of the compulsory tax and provide for his
own security, we were asked to believe that freedom is bad. When Goldwater
calls attention to the moral failures in our society and suggests that a
President can do something about this admitted condition, a learned critic
calls attention to the superficial fact that the President is not a local
policeman. Since Goldwater is a disturber of the complacency that characterizes
American opinion, the Republican candidate is called irresponsible and
dangerous. But whoever has made a serious study of the significance of the
Presidency knows that the man who holds that office can be a tremendous moral
influence. Before he was President, Woodrow Wilson wrote that the President's
office is whatever "he has the sagacity and force to make it." He can, if he
chooses, make of himself the conscience of the nation "not only to lead it but
to form it to his own views." **"MORAL ARISTOCRACY"** Wilson in 1908 no doubt
had in mind Presidents who had served in his lifetime. Grover Cleveland came to
office first in a national revolt against what had become public, business, and
official immorality. And he taught and impressed upon the country the paramount
need for personal and official reform. McKinley, the whipping boy of modern
liberalism, promised sound money and made good his promise. Theodore Roosevelt
lectured and guided Americans on almost every aspect of life, from personal
hygiene to the sanctity of international agreements. And Wilson himself during
his Presidency made the "preaching" function of his office most important. In a
new and profoundly thought-ful book, "The Foundations of Morality" (398 pages,
Van Nostrand, $9.95), my NEWSWEEK colleague, Henry Hazlitt, discusses what he
calls a "moral aristocracy." He says that anyone who commands attention exerts
a moral influence upon the millions who know his name. He may be a scientist,
philosopher, or industrial pioneer. But while he may not realize it, he is
perforce in the business of building national character. Also, he may hold an
exalted public office, and because what he says commands attention he can shape
individual behavior and the actions of those who are charged at lower levels
with law enforcement. On one occasion TR very effectively lectured police
chiefs on the responsibilities of their office. **THE POWER OF CHOICE** From
the beginning, Goldwater has drawn the moral question into three sharp issues
which distinguish him from his opponent. He says that the President must be the
moral master and censor of his official household. He has also made clear that
the President's vast influence can build more responsibility and efficiency
into local and state law enforcement. But what is more important still, he
challenges the collectivist ethic which holds that individual character and
behavior are determined by the material environment. Lyndon Johnson may not be
aware of the term, but his whole attitude toward social improvement is in line
with the sociological concept called environmentalism. People are bad because
they are ill-fed, ill-housed, and ill-clothed. Give them material things with
money exacted from others or obligations passed on to future generations, and
goodness will prevail. Goldwater is insisting upon what Adam Smith called the
"man within." Material splendor is neither the creator nor the concomitant nor
the promise of individual character. A Johnson Administration can create these
vast material works in a rich country. But unless individual freedom is
assured, there will certainly be moral decay. For, as Hazlitt says in another
place in his book, "Only to the extent that men have the power of choice can
they be said to choose the good." Newsweek, October 19, 1964

==================================================

Title: NIXON'S ROLE IN 1964: RECORD OF LOYALTY
Date: 1964-10-26
Publication: Newsweek
Text: PERSPECTIVE NIXON'S ROLE IN 1964 BY RAYMOND MOLEY If the acclaim now given by conservative people to Richard Nixon for his campaign over the nation in support of the Goldwater-Miller ticket had been accorded him by those same people in 1960, he would now be running for re-election as President, and John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson would be senators from their respective states. In 1960 there were altogether too many conservative people who were dampening Nixon's chances by complaints that he was not conservative enough, or that he should say this or that which he did not say, or that his campaign was badly managed, or that he did badly in his debates with his opponent. I have no doubt that this halfhearted support or nonsupport of Nixon in that year lost him the margin of victory. It was useless then to argue with those conservatives. They did not seem to realize that the choice in 1960 was real and vital and important to the future of the nation. It was not realized then that while his relationship with the Eisenhower Administration was something of an asset, it was also a great liability. For he could not then state frankly that it was a State Department "clique" that helped Castro attain power in Cuba. Nor could he respond when candidate Kennedy suggested that an invasion of Cuba by refugees would be desirable, for such an invasion plan was already under way and was top secret. Nor could he respond to the conservatives' complaint about President Eisenhower's neglect of his party's welfare. RECORD OF LOYALTY Now, however, he is under no such restraints. The old clichés about the "old" or the "new" Nixon are irrelevant now. He has always been the same, essentially conservative, and a supporter of the Republican Party in victory and defeat. In the Congressional campaigns in 1954 and 1958 he battled in many states in the very teeth of defeat. I remember well how hard he tried to stem a crushing defeat for the Republican ticket in California in 1958, because I was out there and witnessed his efforts. He battled in Ohio and in many other states for losing causes. Those efforts are well remembered by hard-pressed Republican state leaders, and that is why Nixon's campaigning now is such a boost to their morale. The sharp contrast between the attitude of Nixon now and that of the neutralism of the Romneys and the restraint of the Rockefellers will not be forgotten. Nixon's role in the future of the Republican Party and his image before the nation as a statesman of the first rank will be assured. FIGHTING FOR UNITY The wisdom of his move from California to New York is now apparent. For he can speak not merely from one state but on a national platform. Even more than General Eisenhower, he is able to heal the wounds in the GOP inflicted at San Francisco and before. He is not, as it were, getting into the fight "to pick up the pieces." He is convinced that Goldwater can win if the issues are vigorously exploited. Nor is he moved by the possibility of his own nomination in 1968. For Nixon is a realist. If Goldwater wins, that nomination will be foreclosed, and if Goldwater loses, no one can tell now what the unpredictable course of public and party preference will be. In his campaigning Nixon has already effectively blunted the sharpest issue of the opponents of Goldwater: irresponsibility and recklessness in suggesting the delegation of authority to use atomic weapons. Nixon bears testimony as one who, as a member of the Eisenhower inner circle, was privy to a plan for such delegation in certain contingencies, as reassurance to our NATO allies and for the protection of our slim forces in Europe against attack by overwhelming Soviet hordes. His challenge to the President to say whether that plan has been abandoned cannot be said to violate security, for the matter is now an unkept "secret." It is well for this great debate that Nixon has not chosen, as other former Republican candidates for President and Vice President have chosen, to vanish behind the green shades of a law office, or to remain silent or to advocate splitting the ticket in favor of Johnson-Humphrey. He has raised a standard of unity and hope for a beleaguered GOP. Newsweek, October 26, 1964
Full Context: PERSPECTIVE NIXON'S ROLE IN 1964 BY RAYMOND MOLEY If the acclaim now given by
conservative people to Richard Nixon for his campaign over the nation in
support of the Goldwater-Miller ticket had been accorded him by those same
people in 1960, he would now be running for re-election as President, and John
F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson would be senators from their respective
states. In 1960 there were altogether too many conservative people who were
dampening Nixon's chances by complaints that he was not conservative enough, or
that he should say this or that which he did not say, or that his campaign was
badly managed, or that he did badly in his debates with his opponent. I have no
doubt that this halfhearted support or nonsupport of Nixon in that year lost
him the margin of victory. It was useless then to argue with those
conservatives. They did not seem to realize that the choice in 1960 was real
and vital and important to the future of the nation. It was not realized then
that while his relationship with the Eisenhower Administration was something of
an asset, it was also a great liability. For he could not then state frankly
that it was a State Department "clique" that helped Castro attain power in
Cuba. Nor could he respond when candidate Kennedy suggested that an invasion of
Cuba by refugees would be desirable, for such an invasion plan was already
under way and was top secret. Nor could he respond to the conservatives'
complaint about President Eisenhower's neglect of his party's welfare. RECORD
OF LOYALTY Now, however, he is under no such restraints. The old clichés about
the "old" or the "new" Nixon are irrelevant now. He has always been the same,
essentially conservative, and a supporter of the Republican Party in victory
and defeat. In the Congressional campaigns in 1954 and 1958 he battled in many
states in the very teeth of defeat. I remember well how hard he tried to stem a
crushing defeat for the Republican ticket in California in 1958, because I was
out there and witnessed his efforts. He battled in Ohio and in many other
states for losing causes. Those efforts are well remembered by hard-pressed
Republican state leaders, and that is why Nixon's campaigning now is such a
boost to their morale. The sharp contrast between the attitude of Nixon now and
that of the neutralism of the Romneys and the restraint of the Rockefellers
will not be forgotten. Nixon's role in the future of the Republican Party and
his image before the nation as a statesman of the first rank will be assured.
FIGHTING FOR UNITY The wisdom of his move from California to New York is now
apparent. For he can speak not merely from one state but on a national
platform. Even more than General Eisenhower, he is able to heal the wounds in
the GOP inflicted at San Francisco and before. He is not, as it were, getting
into the fight "to pick up the pieces." He is convinced that Goldwater can win
if the issues are vigorously exploited. Nor is he moved by the possibility of
his own nomination in 1968. For Nixon is a realist. If Goldwater wins, that
nomination will be foreclosed, and if Goldwater loses, no one can tell now what
the unpredictable course of public and party preference will be. In his
campaigning Nixon has already effectively blunted the sharpest issue of the
opponents of Goldwater: irresponsibility and recklessness in suggesting the
delegation of authority to use atomic weapons. Nixon bears testimony as one
who, as a member of the Eisenhower inner circle, was privy to a plan for such
delegation in certain contingencies, as reassurance to our NATO allies and for
the protection of our slim forces in Europe against attack by overwhelming
Soviet hordes. His challenge to the President to say whether that plan has been
abandoned cannot be said to violate security, for the matter is now an unkept
"secret." It is well for this great debate that Nixon has not chosen, as other
former Republican candidates for President and Vice President have chosen, to
vanish behind the green shades of a law office, or to remain silent or to
advocate splitting the ticket in favor of Johnson-Humphrey. He has raised a
standard of unity and hope for a beleaguered GOP. Newsweek, October 26, 1964

==================================================

Title: GOP Must Acquire the Equipment to Become a Genuine Opposition
Date: 1964-11-08
Publication: LAT
Text: GOP Must Acquire the Equipment to Become a Genuine Opposition BY RAYMOND MOLEY It will take weeks, perhaps months to draw cogent conclusions from the tremendous impact of the Johnson victory. For there must be considered the reactions of Republican party leaders and opinion-makers in the states in which their candidates at all levels went down along with the big majority against the Goldwater-Miller ticket at the top of the ballot. In the 40-odd states where that ticket lost, there must be considerations of reorganization, reflection on the national issues, a good deal of thought about finding and developing new leaders and new candidates and, above all, serious thought about how to behave as an effective opposition to the Democratic establishment so firmly entrenched in the Executive and the Congress. ★ First of all, let us reject some of the thoughts which leaped into print the morning after and the morning after that. At the beginning we must realize that the two-party system will remain, lop-sided though it may be as measured by voting statistics. The Republican Party will survive. In our history, parties beaten to the ground in a Presidential election have been left for dead. But they have recovered to fight again. The Republicans lived after the great divide in 1912 and also after the Landon slaughter in 1936. Corrective victories follow in the Congressional elections two years later, when individuals are eliminated who were swept into office behind a popular President and who never could have won, had their own qualifications been assessed by the voters. Such was the case in 1938, 1942, 1946, 1950, 1954, and 1958. But something more is needed now than merely to wait for reaction. The movement which was basically a conservative protest against "liberal" government was not equipped to take over power at the national level. The revolution in the Republican Party which triumphed at San Francisco was composed of many elements, few of which were sufficiently experienced or sufficiently unified behind identifiable policies, and which were too destitute of talent to provide the machinery and personnel to govern the nation. I believe that Goldwater realized this weakness before he offered himself as a candidate. For he is, despite his detractors, a reasonable and realistic individual. But he was, willy-nilly, the leader of a movement and the emblem of the purposes of many disparate elements. He will be blamed for this defeat in thousands of published and spoken comments. But I, for one, will not join in that chorus. He did what he could, with what he had, where he was in this campaign. He made mistakes, as all candidates must. But the weakness of cause was in the constituent elements of his following. There were irrational irreconcilables within the Goldwater following. The opposition called these people "extremists," and for lack of a better word I accept that characterization. There were those who would abolish the income tax forthwith. Others would scrap the United Nations and break all relations with Soviet Russia. Others would withdraw the federal government from the area of racial relations and leave all authority to the states. Others charged treasonable purposes to everyone in the Democratic administration. Others would scrap the whole Social Security system rather than reform it reasonably. Despite Goldwater's specific and detailed amendments to those positions, the stigma stuck to him personally. ★ Young people by the thousands joined in the protest and in the party revolution and in the campaign. These young people are invaluable and irreplaceable. But they must study their lessons. For they have been all heart and no head. Five years ago I wrote more than one piece pointing out this deficiency. And I said further that such "all-or-nothing" irreconcilables were a handicap rather than an asset to genuine conservatism. I even wrote a small book saying this. In the reconstruction, true and constructive elements in a conservative Republican opposition must be created. It may take two years or more to do this, but it is essential to a balance of the parties and the welfare of the nation. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: GOP Must Acquire the Equipment to Become a Genuine Opposition BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It will take weeks, perhaps months to draw cogent conclusions from the
tremendous impact of the Johnson victory. For there must be considered the
reactions of Republican party leaders and opinion-makers in the states in which
their candidates at all levels went down along with the big majority against
the Goldwater-Miller ticket at the top of the ballot. In the 40-odd states
where that ticket lost, there must be considerations of reorganization,
reflection on the national issues, a good deal of thought about finding and
developing new leaders and new candidates and, above all, serious thought about
how to behave as an effective opposition to the Democratic establishment so
firmly entrenched in the Executive and the Congress. ★ First of all, let us
reject some of the thoughts which leaped into print the morning after and the
morning after that. At the beginning we must realize that the two-party system
will remain, lop-sided though it may be as measured by voting statistics. The
Republican Party will survive. In our history, parties beaten to the ground in
a Presidential election have been left for dead. But they have recovered to
fight again. The Republicans lived after the great divide in 1912 and also
after the Landon slaughter in 1936. Corrective victories follow in the
Congressional elections two years later, when individuals are eliminated who
were swept into office behind a popular President and who never could have won,
had their own qualifications been assessed by the voters. Such was the case in
1938, 1942, 1946, 1950, 1954, and 1958. But something more is needed now than
merely to wait for reaction. The movement which was basically a conservative
protest against "liberal" government was not equipped to take over power at the
national level. The revolution in the Republican Party which triumphed at San
Francisco was composed of many elements, few of which were sufficiently
experienced or sufficiently unified behind identifiable policies, and which
were too destitute of talent to provide the machinery and personnel to govern
the nation. I believe that Goldwater realized this weakness before he offered
himself as a candidate. For he is, despite his detractors, a reasonable and
realistic individual. But he was, willy-nilly, the leader of a movement and the
emblem of the purposes of many disparate elements. He will be blamed for this
defeat in thousands of published and spoken comments. But I, for one, will not
join in that chorus. He did what he could, with what he had, where he was in
this campaign. He made mistakes, as all candidates must. But the weakness of
cause was in the constituent elements of his following. There were irrational
irreconcilables within the Goldwater following. The opposition called these
people "extremists," and for lack of a better word I accept that
characterization. There were those who would abolish the income tax forthwith.
Others would scrap the United Nations and break all relations with Soviet
Russia. Others would withdraw the federal government from the area of racial
relations and leave all authority to the states. Others charged treasonable
purposes to everyone in the Democratic administration. Others would scrap the
whole Social Security system rather than reform it reasonably. Despite
Goldwater's specific and detailed amendments to those positions, the stigma
stuck to him personally. ★ Young people by the thousands joined in the protest
and in the party revolution and in the campaign. These young people are
invaluable and irreplaceable. But they must study their lessons. For they have
been all heart and no head. Five years ago I wrote more than one piece pointing
out this deficiency. And I said further that such "all-or-nothing"
irreconcilables were a handicap rather than an asset to genuine conservatism. I
even wrote a small book saying this. In the reconstruction, true and
constructive elements in a conservative Republican opposition must be created.
It may take two years or more to do this, but it is essential to a balance of
the parties and the welfare of the nation. Reproduced with permission of the
copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: Assaying of Election Requires Look at GOP's Handicaps, Too
Date: 1964-11-15
Publication: LAT
Text: Assaying of Election Requires Look at GOP's Handicaps, Too BY RAYMOND MOLEY In the midst of the row now going on among Republicans, I hope to offer in this piece a caution based on logic, reason, and fair play. In the first place, it ill becomes Republicans who either refused to support, Sen. Barry Goldwater or actively worked against him to blame his defeat on the way he conducted his campaign. Two fellows are in a fight. During the imbroglio a spectator reaches in and trips one of the combatants. Then after the opponent has won the fight, the man who interfered shouts that if the loser had fought better he would have won. Those Republicans who failed to help or actively opposed Goldwater in this campaign should be the last to blame Goldwater for his loss. ★ In politics, as in many other human affairs, nothing succeeds like success. I know this well, because I have not only been close to many Presidential campaigns but was a participant in one. In that one in 1932 which Roosevelt won, there were plenty of instances in the campaign in which the wrong thing was said and the right thing was omitted. But in the volume of praise that followed victory, nobody mentioned the errors, everybody praised the genius of the winner. I have always since then followed the rule of refraining from performing a post-election autopsy on the loser. A lot of people right now who have had no experience in politics are popping up with "perfect" theories of how Goldwater might have won if he had said this or refrained from saying that. That happened in 1960, and I replied by pointing out the factors which contributed to Nixon's defeat and for which he himself was blameless. In this campaign Johnson made his mistakes, too. But he won, and all his deficiencies are forgotten. Now that it is over, Gov. Nelson Rockefeller is playing the old cracked record that we heard before the convention — all the old saws about the "main- stream" and "moderation." And while he chooses to remain irreconcilable, he is illogical enough to call for party unity. In all fairness, it is necessary in appraising a defeat to take account of the odds and handicaps against which a loser contended. President Johnson had in his favor the salient elements of success — peace and prosperity. He had the Presidency and could use his official status most effectively. He was opposing a divided GOP, a minority party at that. He also had an already organized party machine to support him. This he inherited from his predecessor. The candidate of a party which is out of power must throw together an organization in days and weeks, and anyone knows that organizations take a long time to build. Goldwater's organization was handicapped by inexperience. In many states Republican organizations have no real strength. In some, there is no organization except on paper. Despite these handicaps Goldwater made a terrific effort and he failed. To be sure, mistakes were made, but if he had won, those mistakes would be forgotten.... Carlyle had words for this in his immortal essay on Burns: "Granted, the ship comes into harbor with shrouds and tackle damaged: the pilot is blameworthy: he has not been all-wise and all-powerful: but to know how blameworthy, tell us first whether his voyage has been around the earth, or only to Ramsgate and the Isle of Dogs." ★ When we assay the results of this election—and we can't do it in a few days after the election—let us consider the handicaps as well as the failures. In common justice, let us not put all the blame on the one man at the head of the ticket. Richard Nixon is one man who speaks from personal experience. He has since the election pointed out how hard it is on a candidate with fellow members of his own party dragging their feet. He is one man, perhaps the most important man to evaluate the future necessities of the Republican Party. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Assaying of Election Requires Look at GOP's Handicaps, Too BY RAYMOND MOLEY In
the midst of the row now going on among Republicans, I hope to offer in this
piece a caution based on logic, reason, and fair play. In the first place, it
ill becomes Republicans who either refused to support, Sen. Barry Goldwater or
actively worked against him to blame his defeat on the way he conducted his
campaign. Two fellows are in a fight. During the imbroglio a spectator reaches
in and trips one of the combatants. Then after the opponent has won the fight,
the man who interfered shouts that if the loser had fought better he would have
won. Those Republicans who failed to help or actively opposed Goldwater in this
campaign should be the last to blame Goldwater for his loss. ★ In politics, as
in many other human affairs, nothing succeeds like success. I know this well,
because I have not only been close to many Presidential campaigns but was a
participant in one. In that one in 1932 which Roosevelt won, there were plenty
of instances in the campaign in which the wrong thing was said and the right
thing was omitted. But in the volume of praise that followed victory, nobody
mentioned the errors, everybody praised the genius of the winner. I have always
since then followed the rule of refraining from performing a post-election
autopsy on the loser. A lot of people right now who have had no experience in
politics are popping up with "perfect" theories of how Goldwater might have won
if he had said this or refrained from saying that. That happened in 1960, and I
replied by pointing out the factors which contributed to Nixon's defeat and for
which he himself was blameless. In this campaign Johnson made his mistakes,
too. But he won, and all his deficiencies are forgotten. Now that it is over,
Gov. Nelson Rockefeller is playing the old cracked record that we heard before
the convention — all the old saws about the "main- stream" and "moderation."
And while he chooses to remain irreconcilable, he is illogical enough to call
for party unity. In all fairness, it is necessary in appraising a defeat to
take account of the odds and handicaps against which a loser contended.
President Johnson had in his favor the salient elements of success — peace and
prosperity. He had the Presidency and could use his official status most
effectively. He was opposing a divided GOP, a minority party at that. He also
had an already organized party machine to support him. This he inherited from
his predecessor. The candidate of a party which is out of power must throw
together an organization in days and weeks, and anyone knows that organizations
take a long time to build. Goldwater's organization was handicapped by
inexperience. In many states Republican organizations have no real strength. In
some, there is no organization except on paper. Despite these handicaps
Goldwater made a terrific effort and he failed. To be sure, mistakes were made,
but if he had won, those mistakes would be forgotten.... Carlyle had words for
this in his immortal essay on Burns: "Granted, the ship comes into harbor with
shrouds and tackle damaged: the pilot is blameworthy: he has not been all-wise
and all-powerful: but to know how blameworthy, tell us first whether his voyage
has been around the earth, or only to Ramsgate and the Isle of Dogs." ★ When we
assay the results of this election—and we can't do it in a few days after the
election—let us consider the handicaps as well as the failures. In common
justice, let us not put all the blame on the one man at the head of the ticket.
Richard Nixon is one man who speaks from personal experience. He has since the
election pointed out how hard it is on a candidate with fellow members of his
own party dragging their feet. He is one man, perhaps the most important man to
evaluate the future necessities of the Republican Party. Reproduced with
permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without
permission.

==================================================

Title: INDISPENSABLE DISSENT: NO ERA OF HARMONY
Date: 1964-11-16
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **INDISPENSABLE DISSENT** BY RAYMOND MOLEY The egghead word for it has been "consensus." Before the San Fran- cisco convention it was used to urge Republicans to take the middle way and present a candidate whose views were relatively indistinguishable from the presently established regime in Washington. The two parties, they said, should be so alike that transition from one to the other might be with- out effort or pain. After this course was rejected by the convention, the theme changed. A Republican consensus had failed; it was necessary to national harmony to "bury" the GOP candidates. Lyndon Johnson took up the refrain from the consensual Republicans. He expressed the same aversion to dis- sent, but used the word "content- ment" or its equivalent. In his vision of an era of good feeling, his encom- passing arms embrace the Fords and the Reuthers, Harvard and Texas, all races, creeds, sections, and national- ities. The vision of Isaiah comes to mind, with the wolf, the lamb, the leopard, the kid, the cow, and the bear, the lion, and the ox all peace- fully resting in the Federal corral, with good old Lyndon passing out the corn pone. This syrupy sentiment evoked a great amen in the press, the pulpit, the pundits, labor, and a sizable sector of business. The President has said that "unless there is progress, there will be dis- content." The truth written in history is that without discontent there can be no progress. The milk from con- tented cows may nourish the body. But the miasma created by a con- tented people corrupts the spirit. **NO ERA OF HARMONY** We have heard before of "an era of good feeling." That is what the second term of Monroe was called after that President had been re- elected by a vote which lacked unanimity by one. But in the early 1820s the two parties were shattered by factionalism. Crazy speculation west of the Appalachians brought to the inhabitants inflation, bankruptcy, and distress. The Missouri Compro- mise deferred but did not solve the slavery question. In the East the Bank of the United States brought corruption into the Senate itself. Latin America exploded in revolution and great imperial powers of Europe moved in for the kill. It was the end of an era and the beginning of the revolution which centered in Andrew Jackson, who was called worse names than were applied to Goldwater. But the national growth which followed until 1860 found vital nourishment in dissent. Nonconform- ity was the very spirit of those who came from the Old World to this new land. My old professor at Columbia reminded his class that America was populated by "kickers." The 1964 equivalent of that word is "kooks." The belief that dissent can be purged by a debacle at the polls is fatuous sophistry. The questions about the past 30 years of liberalism raised in this campaign will not die in November. They go to the very essence of our national character, purpose, and destiny. **THE DIFFERENCES REMAIN** The revolution which swept the Republican Party in San Francisco may not yet provide the essential talent for government. But so long as the vigor of dissent remains-and it will remain-it will shape the political patterns of the future. Goldwater rejected wholly the concept that Americans can be satis- fied with only those material means which can be bestowed by a paternal government. He pointed to a differ- ent sort of war on poverty-the need for a war against that poverty of spirit that manifests itself in compla- cent acceptance of bribes in the form of indiscriminate subsidies. The polit- ical trickery of passing on the burden of costs to another generation is be- coming quite obvious to those who must shoulder that burden. The need for dissent, I feel confi- dent, will soon appear even to those who have been frightened by what is called Goldwaterism. It is not merely the man Goldwater that was involved in this decision. It may well be the principles and policies for which the President asked a mandate. So long as dissent is abroad in the land, the health of the nation is as- sured. For the shaping of the future is not within the power or province of any one man or one temporary regime. The right of dissent is an attribute of freedom. Newsweek, November 16, 1964
Full Context: **INDISPENSABLE DISSENT** BY RAYMOND MOLEY The egghead word for it has been
"consensus." Before the San Fran- cisco convention it was used to urge
Republicans to take the middle way and present a candidate whose views were
relatively indistinguishable from the presently established regime in
Washington. The two parties, they said, should be so alike that transition from
one to the other might be with- out effort or pain. After this course was
rejected by the convention, the theme changed. A Republican consensus had
failed; it was necessary to national harmony to "bury" the GOP candidates.
Lyndon Johnson took up the refrain from the consensual Republicans. He
expressed the same aversion to dis- sent, but used the word "content- ment" or
its equivalent. In his vision of an era of good feeling, his encom- passing
arms embrace the Fords and the Reuthers, Harvard and Texas, all races, creeds,
sections, and national- ities. The vision of Isaiah comes to mind, with the
wolf, the lamb, the leopard, the kid, the cow, and the bear, the lion, and the
ox all peace- fully resting in the Federal corral, with good old Lyndon passing
out the corn pone. This syrupy sentiment evoked a great amen in the press, the
pulpit, the pundits, labor, and a sizable sector of business. The President has
said that "unless there is progress, there will be dis- content." The truth
written in history is that without discontent there can be no progress. The
milk from con- tented cows may nourish the body. But the miasma created by a
con- tented people corrupts the spirit. **NO ERA OF HARMONY** We have heard
before of "an era of good feeling." That is what the second term of Monroe was
called after that President had been re- elected by a vote which lacked
unanimity by one. But in the early 1820s the two parties were shattered by
factionalism. Crazy speculation west of the Appalachians brought to the
inhabitants inflation, bankruptcy, and distress. The Missouri Compro- mise
deferred but did not solve the slavery question. In the East the Bank of the
United States brought corruption into the Senate itself. Latin America exploded
in revolution and great imperial powers of Europe moved in for the kill. It was
the end of an era and the beginning of the revolution which centered in Andrew
Jackson, who was called worse names than were applied to Goldwater. But the
national growth which followed until 1860 found vital nourishment in dissent.
Nonconform- ity was the very spirit of those who came from the Old World to
this new land. My old professor at Columbia reminded his class that America was
populated by "kickers." The 1964 equivalent of that word is "kooks." The belief
that dissent can be purged by a debacle at the polls is fatuous sophistry. The
questions about the past 30 years of liberalism raised in this campaign will
not die in November. They go to the very essence of our national character,
purpose, and destiny. **THE DIFFERENCES REMAIN** The revolution which swept the
Republican Party in San Francisco may not yet provide the essential talent for
government. But so long as the vigor of dissent remains-and it will remain-it
will shape the political patterns of the future. Goldwater rejected wholly the
concept that Americans can be satis- fied with only those material means which
can be bestowed by a paternal government. He pointed to a differ- ent sort of
war on poverty-the need for a war against that poverty of spirit that manifests
itself in compla- cent acceptance of bribes in the form of indiscriminate
subsidies. The polit- ical trickery of passing on the burden of costs to
another generation is be- coming quite obvious to those who must shoulder that
burden. The need for dissent, I feel confi- dent, will soon appear even to
those who have been frightened by what is called Goldwaterism. It is not merely
the man Goldwater that was involved in this decision. It may well be the
principles and policies for which the President asked a mandate. So long as
dissent is abroad in the land, the health of the nation is as- sured. For the
shaping of the future is not within the power or province of any one man or one
temporary regime. The right of dissent is an attribute of freedom. Newsweek,
November 16, 1964

==================================================

Title: A PARTY'S NINE LIVES: NEED FOR SPECIFICS
Date: 1964-11-30
Publication: Newsweek
Text: **PERSPECTIVE** **A PARTY'S NINE LIVES** BY RAYMOND MOLEY Among all the published comments about the GOP's future, those of Richard Nixon make the most sense.  Moreover, he has richly earned the right to be heard. No one except the candidates labored so hard in this campaign—200 speeches in 36 states. And the narrow margin of his loss in 1960 shows that he and his views are most acceptable to the great majority of Republican voters. He is speaking in the interest of party unity, not in terms of "let us have peace," but with reservations. For in the prospective regeneration of the party he excludes a dominant voice for those who deserted the ticket chosen at San Francisco—Rockefeller, Javits, Case of New Jersey, Kuchel of California. By inference, therefore, he means that the sectional faction which won the Presidential nominations in 1940, 1944, 1948, and 1952 must in the future play a minor part in party affairs. That was decisively settled at the San Francisco convention this year. By implication Nixon is saying also that any of the candidates who op- posed Goldwater at or before the convention would have lost by an even greater majority. The policies advanced by these dissidents and the voting records of those who hold seats in Congress reveal ideological positions so like those of the Democratic regime that such acquiescence could never provide the choice so necessary to a two-party system. **NEED FOR SPECIFICS** Nixon gives voice to none of those recriminations against Gold- water which have been so popular since the election. Goldwater, he says, will retain influence in the GOP, "a good, constructive influence." This suggests that the Goldwater following, after excluding the so- called "radical right," is so dedicated to the views of the recent candidate that no viable party can exist without its support. The determination of future party policy is not so difficult as it seems. It is well, in seeking measurable agreement, to dispense with such generalities as "right," "far right," "left," "far left," and "moderate." What is needed in determining party policy is specifics. Some of these specifics are: How, by creating alternative programs suitable to a strong opposition, can the drift to a centralized government be slowed down and halted? How can the social-security system be rationalized without losing the central purpose, which is to provide security for old age? How can the waste in defense be cut without impairing the national security? How can the income tax be revised in the interest of equity and productivity? For the 1964 tax cut was at best a crudely conceived reform. Is the GOP to accept without strong dissent the theory of this Administration that there should be planned deficits and that such deficits are sound means of economic growth? Standing on the firm principles embodied in the Kerr-Mills Act, how can it be revised or administered in a way to eliminate the demand for medicare attached to social security? **STEPS TOWARD REVIVAL** In foreign affairs, how should our fraying alliances be strengthened? How should the foreign-aid program be reduced and administered? What should be our posture toward the changing conditions in the Communist world? How can the United States make secure a beachhead in Southeast Asia without surrender to neutralization? What must be done in revising the United Nations Charter to achieve the basic purposes for which the U.N. was created? There is need for a conference of GOP leaders intelligently to seek agreement on the elements of a party faith. Such agreement will leave as dissidents some who favor all-or-nothing policies. Some who dissent will continue to support Democratic rather than Republican policies. Others will remain irreconcilable in their belief that conservatism should oppose everything that has happened in the past 30 years. The Republican goal is not 1968. It is constructive opposition in Congress, even with reduced numbers. And it is 1966, when some of the repairs after the Johnson landslide can be achieved at the state and Congressional-district level. For history teaches that after a landslide like this, there is a revival of the opposition two years later. Newsweek, November 30, 1964
Full Context: **PERSPECTIVE** **A PARTY'S NINE LIVES** BY RAYMOND MOLEY Among all the
published comments about the GOP's future, those of Richard Nixon make the most
sense.  Moreover, he has richly earned the right to be heard. No one except the
candidates labored so hard in this campaign—200 speeches in 36 states. And the
narrow margin of his loss in 1960 shows that he and his views are most
acceptable to the great majority of Republican voters. He is speaking in the
interest of party unity, not in terms of "let us have peace," but with
reservations. For in the prospective regeneration of the party he excludes a
dominant voice for those who deserted the ticket chosen at San
Francisco—Rockefeller, Javits, Case of New Jersey, Kuchel of California. By
inference, therefore, he means that the sectional faction which won the
Presidential nominations in 1940, 1944, 1948, and 1952 must in the future play
a minor part in party affairs. That was decisively settled at the San Francisco
convention this year. By implication Nixon is saying also that any of the
candidates who op- posed Goldwater at or before the convention would have lost
by an even greater majority. The policies advanced by these dissidents and the
voting records of those who hold seats in Congress reveal ideological positions
so like those of the Democratic regime that such acquiescence could never
provide the choice so necessary to a two-party system. **NEED FOR SPECIFICS**
Nixon gives voice to none of those recriminations against Gold- water which
have been so popular since the election. Goldwater, he says, will retain
influence in the GOP, "a good, constructive influence." This suggests that the
Goldwater following, after excluding the so- called "radical right," is so
dedicated to the views of the recent candidate that no viable party can exist
without its support. The determination of future party policy is not so
difficult as it seems. It is well, in seeking measurable agreement, to dispense
with such generalities as "right," "far right," "left," "far left," and
"moderate." What is needed in determining party policy is specifics. Some of
these specifics are: How, by creating alternative programs suitable to a strong
opposition, can the drift to a centralized government be slowed down and
halted? How can the social-security system be rationalized without losing the
central purpose, which is to provide security for old age? How can the waste in
defense be cut without impairing the national security? How can the income tax
be revised in the interest of equity and productivity? For the 1964 tax cut was
at best a crudely conceived reform. Is the GOP to accept without strong dissent
the theory of this Administration that there should be planned deficits and
that such deficits are sound means of economic growth? Standing on the firm
principles embodied in the Kerr-Mills Act, how can it be revised or
administered in a way to eliminate the demand for medicare attached to social
security? **STEPS TOWARD REVIVAL** In foreign affairs, how should our fraying
alliances be strengthened? How should the foreign-aid program be reduced and
administered? What should be our posture toward the changing conditions in the
Communist world? How can the United States make secure a beachhead in Southeast
Asia without surrender to neutralization? What must be done in revising the
United Nations Charter to achieve the basic purposes for which the U.N. was
created? There is need for a conference of GOP leaders intelligently to seek
agreement on the elements of a party faith. Such agreement will leave as
dissidents some who favor all-or-nothing policies. Some who dissent will
continue to support Democratic rather than Republican policies. Others will
remain irreconcilable in their belief that conservatism should oppose
everything that has happened in the past 30 years. The Republican goal is not
1968. It is constructive opposition in Congress, even with reduced numbers. And
it is 1966, when some of the repairs after the Johnson landslide can be
achieved at the state and Congressional-district level. For history teaches
that after a landslide like this, there is a revival of the opposition two
years later. Newsweek, November 30, 1964

==================================================

Title: COOL OFF, REPUBLICANS!: OUTCRIES OF FRUSTRATION
Date: 1965-01-18
Publication: Newsweek
Text: PERSPECTIVE COOL OFF, REPUBLICANS! BY RAYMOND MOLEY What Republicans generally, and especially those who are members of the National Committee, should seek in the next few months is a moderation of the hysteria which followed the great November defeat. This is not to be attained by merely putting Dean Burch on the bloody sacrificial altar. The opposition to this young man is not because he grossly mismanaged his part in the campaign. As a technician operating and reorganizing the staff of the National Committee, he seems to have been effective. And he refrained in his public utterances from dangerous and indiscreet talk. The demand for his removal seems to be based on the fact that he was selected, in accordance with custom, by the Presidential candidate of the party. Since nothing can be done to Barry Gold- water, who has lost even his seat in the Senate, the complainants are striking at Burch as a gesture of opposition to the 1964 candidate. This is not, as in the case of the Ford-Halleck affair, a contest between two candidates for an office. For the anti-Burch people have not yet united on an alternative. Ray Bliss of Ohio is magnificently qualified for the national chairmanship. But unless he has changed his mind, he would not accept the position except by unanimous demand. I don't believe Ray Bliss would accept if a contest were involved. OUTCRIES OF FRUSTRATION In the weeks following the election a great many hasty and unpremeditated things have been said by many Republicans. This was a quite human manifestation of frustration. For the loss was felt generally and it went down as deep as the county-court- house level. First, there was the premature gathering of Republican governors at Denver. This ended, after a lot of talk, with a meaningless formula to the effect that the GOP should follow a policy of "inclusion" rather than "exclusion." Even the governors who were devoted to Goldwater accepted that generality. But others, like Robert Smylie of Idaho, the governor who roared the loudest, denied this noble principle of inclusion by demanding the purge of Burch. There were also hasty things said by Goldwater supporters. There was bitterness against those who failed to support the candidates of the party chosen after a fair fight at San Francisco. There were ominous suggestions, certainly not endorsed by Goldwater himself, of creating a third party. A small group has launched an effort to create a Conservative Union to operate outside the Republican Party. This is premature and presumptuous and, if carried out, will create even greater disunity among conservative people who should seek their objectives through the means of a major political party. But there is always an overriding sentiment in a defeated party to "do something," even to the extent of chopping off heads. And so what seemed a month ago to be a solid majority for Burch in the National Committee has declined, and Burch has proposed that he be retained as chairman on trial, as it were, for a period of six or nine months. A PARTY CONFERENCE Whether this plea is granted or not, the National Committee should dedicate its efforts to the real business at hand, which is to prepare for the 1966 Congressional elections. It is also necessary to determine whether the turmoil of the past year was due to the clashing personal ambitions of leaders or to genuine differences in ideology and policies. As a contribution to this end, in April or May a party conference might well be called, similar to the annual meetings of the parties in Britain. Representatives of all elements of the GOP in such a conference should explore means of agreement on some common objectives. I believe that there could be general agreement on at least 75 percent of the issues which face the country and that on these a clear line of opposition to the Democrats could be drawn. On the remaining minority of issues, there could be frank recognition that state parties and leaders will, of necessity, respond to the interests which vary from state to state. What is most needed now is the initiation of a period during which tempers may subside and wiser counsels prevail. Newsweek, January 18, 1965
Full Context: PERSPECTIVE COOL OFF, REPUBLICANS! BY RAYMOND MOLEY What Republicans generally,
and especially those who are members of the National Committee, should seek in
the next few months is a moderation of the hysteria which followed the great
November defeat. This is not to be attained by merely putting Dean Burch on the
bloody sacrificial altar. The opposition to this young man is not because he
grossly mismanaged his part in the campaign. As a technician operating and
reorganizing the staff of the National Committee, he seems to have been
effective. And he refrained in his public utterances from dangerous and
indiscreet talk. The demand for his removal seems to be based on the fact that
he was selected, in accordance with custom, by the Presidential candidate of
the party. Since nothing can be done to Barry Gold- water, who has lost even
his seat in the Senate, the complainants are striking at Burch as a gesture of
opposition to the 1964 candidate. This is not, as in the case of the
Ford-Halleck affair, a contest between two candidates for an office. For the
anti-Burch people have not yet united on an alternative. Ray Bliss of Ohio is
magnificently qualified for the national chairmanship. But unless he has
changed his mind, he would not accept the position except by unanimous demand.
I don't believe Ray Bliss would accept if a contest were involved. OUTCRIES OF
FRUSTRATION In the weeks following the election a great many hasty and
unpremeditated things have been said by many Republicans. This was a quite
human manifestation of frustration. For the loss was felt generally and it went
down as deep as the county-court- house level. First, there was the premature
gathering of Republican governors at Denver. This ended, after a lot of talk,
with a meaningless formula to the effect that the GOP should follow a policy of
"inclusion" rather than "exclusion." Even the governors who were devoted to
Goldwater accepted that generality. But others, like Robert Smylie of Idaho,
the governor who roared the loudest, denied this noble principle of inclusion
by demanding the purge of Burch. There were also hasty things said by Goldwater
supporters. There was bitterness against those who failed to support the
candidates of the party chosen after a fair fight at San Francisco. There were
ominous suggestions, certainly not endorsed by Goldwater himself, of creating a
third party. A small group has launched an effort to create a Conservative
Union to operate outside the Republican Party. This is premature and
presumptuous and, if carried out, will create even greater disunity among
conservative people who should seek their objectives through the means of a
major political party. But there is always an overriding sentiment in a
defeated party to "do something," even to the extent of chopping off heads. And
so what seemed a month ago to be a solid majority for Burch in the National
Committee has declined, and Burch has proposed that he be retained as chairman
on trial, as it were, for a period of six or nine months. A PARTY CONFERENCE
Whether this plea is granted or not, the National Committee should dedicate its
efforts to the real business at hand, which is to prepare for the 1966
Congressional elections. It is also necessary to determine whether the turmoil
of the past year was due to the clashing personal ambitions of leaders or to
genuine differences in ideology and policies. As a contribution to this end, in
April or May a party conference might well be called, similar to the annual
meetings of the parties in Britain. Representatives of all elements of the GOP
in such a conference should explore means of agreement on some common
objectives. I believe that there could be general agreement on at least 75
percent of the issues which face the country and that on these a clear line of
opposition to the Democrats could be drawn. On the remaining minority of
issues, there could be frank recognition that state parties and leaders will,
of necessity, respond to the interests which vary from state to state. What is
most needed now is the initiation of a period during which tempers may subside
and wiser counsels prevail. Newsweek, January 18, 1965

==================================================

Title: Goldwater Today: Still a Power in Political Life
Date: 1967-03-19
Publication: LAT
Text: Goldwater Today: Still a Power in Political Life BY RAYMOND MOLEY PHOENIX — Phoenicians, as people here call themselves, say that foremost among visitors' questions are inquiries about Barry Goldwa- ter. It would be unfair to say that Goldwater "put Arizona on the map," for the state's virtues were known before its favorite son en- tered the Senate in 1953. But it is true—that the career of the former senator has brought more attention than would millions spent on public relations. A newspaperman from here visit- ing New York wrote this week that wherever he goes and makes it known that he is from Arizona, people ask him "How's Barry?" and "What is Goldwater really like?" In response to the first of these questions, it should be said that Goldwater's man- ner of life is much as it was before he went to the Senate, except that he is no longer associated with the famous family store, which was sold. But he is in the forefront in helping with every cause that is beneficial to his city and state. * So much of the character and tradition of Arizona are embedded in the Goldwater personality that the identification of the man and the state is inevitable. He is as much a part of Arizona as Robert A. Taft was a part of Ohio or as Lyndon Johnson is rooted in Texas. Despite his retirement from office, Goldwater is still the leading politi- cal figure in the state. One cannot say that he "dominates" the politics of the state or even the Republican Party in the state. For domination in the usual connotation of the word can never be associated with Goldwater. When he speaks of freedom, as he does so often, he means not only freedom from governmental restraints, but from the tyranny of machine politics. There are contrasts as well as parallels among figures in the past who won identification with the states that sent them to the Senate. In sharp contrast was Bronson Cutting, over the border in New Mexico. Equipped with abundant personal means, ambition and skill in organization, Cutting built a powerful machine that dominated his state for many years. * On the other hand, there was William E. Borah, whose philosophy was shared by all who served with him in Idaho as long as he lived. As Borah loomed high in the nation he was a source of great pride to every citizen in his state. That was true of the relations between Wisconsin and the LaFollettes. It is so with Goldwater and Arizona. Now in 1967 over the nation there is a reappraisal of Goldwater by the people, some of them famous pun- dits, who were led to believe in 1964 that the man from Arizona was a peril to the republic and who fled in droves to vote for Lyndon Johnson. In that year when the President was not warning his auditors against "extremism," he was evoking visions of "peace and pros- perity." * But now there is no peace, and the President is determined that we must stand fast in Southeast Asia, despite opposition in his own party. Firmness in Vietnam is exactly what Goldwater was condemned for in 1964. Goldwater said in all his crusading that prosperity comes from a con- fident free-enterprise system, with a minimum of managing by govern- ment. Despite plenty of managing by the administration, there are clouds over next year's prospects. The vast programs of welfare and subsidies promoted by the President and obediently enacted into law by Congress are now enmeshed in administrative snarls. One member of the Johnson Cabinet even said recently that the country is too big to be governed by a Washington bureaucracy. That is exactly what Goldwater meant when he warned us all about the dangers of centra- lized government. In 1965, there was the slogan "consensus," which was born of the euphoria follow- ing the great vic- tory in 1964. We haven't heard the word for a year or more, for the Democratic Party is plagued by hopeless differences. The voters blotted out the vi- sion of "consensus" in the elec- tions in 1966, and the President has suffered a serious decline in the polls. * Theodore H. White was himself the victim of the euphoria that prevailed in Washington when his book "The Making of the President, 1964" was published in 1965. Yet toward the end of his observations he wrote a profoundly important historical truth: "And yet—and yet, for all this, one cannot dismiss Goldwater as a man without meaning in American his- tory. Again and again in American history it has happened that the losers of the Presidency contributed almost as much to the permanent tone and dialogue of politics as did the winners." Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Goldwater Today: Still a Power in Political Life BY RAYMOND MOLEY PHOENIX —
Phoenicians, as people here call themselves, say that foremost among visitors'
questions are inquiries about Barry Goldwa- ter. It would be unfair to say that
Goldwater "put Arizona on the map," for the state's virtues were known before
its favorite son en- tered the Senate in 1953. But it is true—that the career
of the former senator has brought more attention than would millions spent on
public relations. A newspaperman from here visit- ing New York wrote this week
that wherever he goes and makes it known that he is from Arizona, people ask
him "How's Barry?" and "What is Goldwater really like?" In response to the
first of these questions, it should be said that Goldwater's man- ner of life
is much as it was before he went to the Senate, except that he is no longer
associated with the famous family store, which was sold. But he is in the
forefront in helping with every cause that is beneficial to his city and state.
* So much of the character and tradition of Arizona are embedded in the
Goldwater personality that the identification of the man and the state is
inevitable. He is as much a part of Arizona as Robert A. Taft was a part of
Ohio or as Lyndon Johnson is rooted in Texas. Despite his retirement from
office, Goldwater is still the leading politi- cal figure in the state. One
cannot say that he "dominates" the politics of the state or even the Republican
Party in the state. For domination in the usual connotation of the word can
never be associated with Goldwater. When he speaks of freedom, as he does so
often, he means not only freedom from governmental restraints, but from the
tyranny of machine politics. There are contrasts as well as parallels among
figures in the past who won identification with the states that sent them to
the Senate. In sharp contrast was Bronson Cutting, over the border in New
Mexico. Equipped with abundant personal means, ambition and skill in
organization, Cutting built a powerful machine that dominated his state for
many years. * On the other hand, there was William E. Borah, whose philosophy
was shared by all who served with him in Idaho as long as he lived. As Borah
loomed high in the nation he was a source of great pride to every citizen in
his state. That was true of the relations between Wisconsin and the
LaFollettes. It is so with Goldwater and Arizona. Now in 1967 over the nation
there is a reappraisal of Goldwater by the people, some of them famous pun-
dits, who were led to believe in 1964 that the man from Arizona was a peril to
the republic and who fled in droves to vote for Lyndon Johnson. In that year
when the President was not warning his auditors against "extremism," he was
evoking visions of "peace and pros- perity." * But now there is no peace, and
the President is determined that we must stand fast in Southeast Asia, despite
opposition in his own party. Firmness in Vietnam is exactly what Goldwater was
condemned for in 1964. Goldwater said in all his crusading that prosperity
comes from a con- fident free-enterprise system, with a minimum of managing by
govern- ment. Despite plenty of managing by the administration, there are
clouds over next year's prospects. The vast programs of welfare and subsidies
promoted by the President and obediently enacted into law by Congress are now
enmeshed in administrative snarls. One member of the Johnson Cabinet even said
recently that the country is too big to be governed by a Washington
bureaucracy. That is exactly what Goldwater meant when he warned us all about
the dangers of centra- lized government. In 1965, there was the slogan
"consensus," which was born of the euphoria follow- ing the great vic- tory in
1964. We haven't heard the word for a year or more, for the Democratic Party is
plagued by hopeless differences. The voters blotted out the vi- sion of
"consensus" in the elec- tions in 1966, and the President has suffered a
serious decline in the polls. * Theodore H. White was himself the victim of the
euphoria that prevailed in Washington when his book "The Making of the
President, 1964" was published in 1965. Yet toward the end of his observations
he wrote a profoundly important historical truth: "And yet—and yet, for all
this, one cannot dismiss Goldwater as a man without meaning in American his-
tory. Again and again in American history it has happened that the losers of
the Presidency contributed almost as much to the permanent tone and dialogue of
politics as did the winners." Reproduced with permission of the copyright
owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: Autopsy Report on GOP, 1964
Date: 1967-04-30
Publication: LAT
Text: Autopsy Report on GOP, 1964 BY RAYMOND MOLEY After every Presidential campaign much more is written by the losers than by the winners. Perhaps this is because the losers have time to spare. The intraparty conflicts suppressed in the campaign are given the air. Indeed, quite a literature has appeared on the campaign of 1964. Some of the titles are Stephen Shadegg's "What Happened to Goldwater?", F. Clifton White's "Suite 3505", and Karl Hess' "In a Cause That Will Triumph." There is also an impartial and important analysis in "The New Methodology: A Study of Political Strategy and Tactics," issued by the American Institute For Political Communication (422 Washington Building, Washington, D.C. 20005). The best account of that campaign, however, is Theodore H. White's, "The Making of the President, 1964," a fine and permanent contribution to political literature. Clifton White is very critical of what he calls the Arizona Mafia who took over the campaign after the nomination. He had successfully managed the draft Goldwater movement and felt that Denison Kitchel, Dean-Burch and, to a lesser degree, Richard G. Kleindienst summarily relegated him to a minor role in the campaign. The payoff on a campaign and an organization is the election. And when the election is lost there is open season for criticism. My own knowledge gained as an observer justifies my conclusion that, considering all the circumstances, Kitchel and Burch did a good and conscientious job. Not even a Mark Hanna, a Will Hays or an Edward. J. Flynn (Franklin D. Roosevelt's major strategist) would have won with a tragically divided party and a candidate who had been unmercifully and unfairly smeared by members of his own party before the nomination. A major complaint in the Shadegg book was Goldwater's decision to separate the people who determined the issues and participated in the speech writing, designated by him as the "think tank," from the "nuts and bolts" political managers both in the Goldwater organization and in the various states. In October, 1963, I wrote a lengthy memorandum to Goldwater suggesting that there be assembled a group of people familiar with the issues to plan and formulate in draft speeches what he proposed to present in the campaign. I said that this group should report directly to him through a leader and not to the political management. This principle of organization was established and worked successfully in Mr. Roosevelt's first campaign in 1932 and was followed in all the succeeding Roosevelt campaigns. It was also the pattern in the Tom Dewey and Dwight Eisenhower campaigns. I have no criticism of what the "think tank" did, for I was not sufficiently close to the campaign to form a judgment. My final direct contact was shortly after Goldwater announced his candidacy at the turn of the year. I entreated him not to enter the New Hampshire primary. This is attested in both Theodore White's book and by Shadegg. Indeed, Goldwater himself told it on television later. It is interesting to note in reply to Shadegg's belief in "nuts and bolts" people that it was a very practical politician, Sen. Norris Cotton, who persuaded Goldwater to ignore my advice. He went to New Hampshire, with the disastrous results that everyone now knows. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Autopsy Report on GOP, 1964 BY RAYMOND MOLEY After every Presidential campaign
much more is written by the losers than by the winners. Perhaps this is because
the losers have time to spare. The intraparty conflicts suppressed in the
campaign are given the air. Indeed, quite a literature has appeared on the
campaign of 1964. Some of the titles are Stephen Shadegg's "What Happened to
Goldwater?", F. Clifton White's "Suite 3505", and Karl Hess' "In a Cause That
Will Triumph." There is also an impartial and important analysis in "The New
Methodology: A Study of Political Strategy and Tactics," issued by the American
Institute For Political Communication (422 Washington Building, Washington,
D.C. 20005). The best account of that campaign, however, is Theodore H.
White's, "The Making of the President, 1964," a fine and permanent contribution
to political literature. Clifton White is very critical of what he calls the
Arizona Mafia who took over the campaign after the nomination. He had
successfully managed the draft Goldwater movement and felt that Denison
Kitchel, Dean-Burch and, to a lesser degree, Richard G. Kleindienst summarily
relegated him to a minor role in the campaign. The payoff on a campaign and an
organization is the election. And when the election is lost there is open
season for criticism. My own knowledge gained as an observer justifies my
conclusion that, considering all the circumstances, Kitchel and Burch did a
good and conscientious job. Not even a Mark Hanna, a Will Hays or an Edward. J.
Flynn (Franklin D. Roosevelt's major strategist) would have won with a
tragically divided party and a candidate who had been unmercifully and unfairly
smeared by members of his own party before the nomination. A major complaint in
the Shadegg book was Goldwater's decision to separate the people who determined
the issues and participated in the speech writing, designated by him as the
"think tank," from the "nuts and bolts" political managers both in the
Goldwater organization and in the various states. In October, 1963, I wrote a
lengthy memorandum to Goldwater suggesting that there be assembled a group of
people familiar with the issues to plan and formulate in draft speeches what he
proposed to present in the campaign. I said that this group should report
directly to him through a leader and not to the political management. This
principle of organization was established and worked successfully in Mr.
Roosevelt's first campaign in 1932 and was followed in all the succeeding
Roosevelt campaigns. It was also the pattern in the Tom Dewey and Dwight
Eisenhower campaigns. I have no criticism of what the "think tank" did, for I
was not sufficiently close to the campaign to form a judgment. My final direct
contact was shortly after Goldwater announced his candidacy at the turn of the
year. I entreated him not to enter the New Hampshire primary. This is attested
in both Theodore White's book and by Shadegg. Indeed, Goldwater himself told it
on television later. It is interesting to note in reply to Shadegg's belief in
"nuts and bolts" people that it was a very practical politician, Sen. Norris
Cotton, who persuaded Goldwater to ignore my advice. He went to New Hampshire,
with the disastrous results that everyone now knows. Reproduced with permission
of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: 'Candidate-Watching' the GOP
Date: 1967-06-04
Publication: LAT
Text: 'Candidate-Watching' the GOP BY RAYMOND MOLEY A vigorous old man addressing a group in his own age bracket recently assured his listeners that, while they were too old for girl watching, there still remained bird watching which they could enjoy without leaving their back yards. Commentators in a dull political year like this must content them- selves with an equally effortless exercise, GOP candidate watching. Generally I avoid speculation about candidates because unforeseen cir- cumstances in the coming 13 months will provide the only reliable an- swer. But since I am confronted with this subject almost every day, a bit of speculation may be in order. Much of the talk about Republican plans for 1968 centers upon Richard Nixon. The opinion is widespread, as it was in the case of Robert A. Taft in 1952, that Nixon has fine qualifications, but that he cannot be elected. He is, "they" say, twice defeated and shopworn. It is likely, however, that the doubts about his capacity to defeat President Johnson may considera- bly lessen when later this year he draws upon his observations in Europe, Asia and Latin America for a series of speeches. It is possible to anticipate that what he says may provide a viable program for opposi- tion for a GOP which seems to need it. That will assure Nixon of the respect and allegiance due a leader. For none of the other potentials seems to have the experience and knowledge for such leadership. Doubts arising from Nixon's two defeats are answered by his support- ers in part by an appeal to history. In recent times Grover Cleveland, William Jennings Bryan and Thomas Dewey were defeated in elections, but still grasped the nomination in another year. Cleve- land, of course, was the only one to be elected after a defeat. Nixon was defeated in 1960 by a very narrow margin. And if there had been a fair count of votes in Illinois, Missouri and Texas, John Kennedy could not have won. A great deal of the Goldwater support, including that of the for- mer candidate himself, is for Nixon. But if George Wallace of Alabama runs, no GOP candidate can win the Southern tier of states won by Gold- water in 1964. Since we are speaking here of the nomination, however, it is not unlikely that Nixon can have the delegates from those states in the South and the border that nominat- ed Goldwater in 1964, with the exception of Texas and Florida, which have favorite sons. * Among the dedicated conserva- tives who still believe that the issues of 1964 deserve another trial in 1968 there is a great deal of talk about Gov. Ronald Reagan. But Reagan might well note the decision of Earl Warren in 1944 when he, like Reagan, was in the middle of his first term as governor. Dewey, assured of the Presidential nomina- tion, asked Warren to run for Vice- President. Warren answered that if he were on the ticket the people of California would vote to keep him home and on the job as governor. It is almost inconceivable that Gov. George Romney, despite his elaborate organization, could win a nomination from a convention that will have a considerable number of the same people who nominated Goldwater in 1964. At the moment, the only formi- dable rival with whom Nixon must reckon is Gov. Nelson Rockefeller. Despite Rockefeller's disavowals and his support of Romney, he will be a choice of many delegates impressed by his success in winning re-election in 1966, his ambitious state programs this year and the support of the powerful and wealthy Eastern establishment. Looming on the horizon are several potential compromises like Sen. Charles Percy. But wise dele- gates will recall the fate of dark horses in the past. They look fine until they meet the test in a campaign against a real profession- al. And such a tough, seasoned professional is Lyndon B. Johnson. 1 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: 'Candidate-Watching' the GOP BY RAYMOND MOLEY A vigorous old man addressing a
group in his own age bracket recently assured his listeners that, while they
were too old for girl watching, there still remained bird watching which they
could enjoy without leaving their back yards. Commentators in a dull political
year like this must content them- selves with an equally effortless exercise,
GOP candidate watching. Generally I avoid speculation about candidates because
unforeseen cir- cumstances in the coming 13 months will provide the only
reliable an- swer. But since I am confronted with this subject almost every
day, a bit of speculation may be in order. Much of the talk about Republican
plans for 1968 centers upon Richard Nixon. The opinion is widespread, as it was
in the case of Robert A. Taft in 1952, that Nixon has fine qualifications, but
that he cannot be elected. He is, "they" say, twice defeated and shopworn. It
is likely, however, that the doubts about his capacity to defeat President
Johnson may considera- bly lessen when later this year he draws upon his
observations in Europe, Asia and Latin America for a series of speeches. It is
possible to anticipate that what he says may provide a viable program for
opposi- tion for a GOP which seems to need it. That will assure Nixon of the
respect and allegiance due a leader. For none of the other potentials seems to
have the experience and knowledge for such leadership. Doubts arising from
Nixon's two defeats are answered by his support- ers in part by an appeal to
history. In recent times Grover Cleveland, William Jennings Bryan and Thomas
Dewey were defeated in elections, but still grasped the nomination in another
year. Cleve- land, of course, was the only one to be elected after a defeat.
Nixon was defeated in 1960 by a very narrow margin. And if there had been a
fair count of votes in Illinois, Missouri and Texas, John Kennedy could not
have won. A great deal of the Goldwater support, including that of the for- mer
candidate himself, is for Nixon. But if George Wallace of Alabama runs, no GOP
candidate can win the Southern tier of states won by Gold- water in 1964. Since
we are speaking here of the nomination, however, it is not unlikely that Nixon
can have the delegates from those states in the South and the border that
nominat- ed Goldwater in 1964, with the exception of Texas and Florida, which
have favorite sons. * Among the dedicated conserva- tives who still believe
that the issues of 1964 deserve another trial in 1968 there is a great deal of
talk about Gov. Ronald Reagan. But Reagan might well note the decision of Earl
Warren in 1944 when he, like Reagan, was in the middle of his first term as
governor. Dewey, assured of the Presidential nomina- tion, asked Warren to run
for Vice- President. Warren answered that if he were on the ticket the people
of California would vote to keep him home and on the job as governor. It is
almost inconceivable that Gov. George Romney, despite his elaborate
organization, could win a nomination from a convention that will have a
considerable number of the same people who nominated Goldwater in 1964. At the
moment, the only formi- dable rival with whom Nixon must reckon is Gov. Nelson
Rockefeller. Despite Rockefeller's disavowals and his support of Romney, he
will be a choice of many delegates impressed by his success in winning
re-election in 1966, his ambitious state programs this year and the support of
the powerful and wealthy Eastern establishment. Looming on the horizon are
several potential compromises like Sen. Charles Percy. But wise dele- gates
will recall the fate of dark horses in the past. They look fine until they meet
the test in a campaign against a real profession- al. And such a tough,
seasoned professional is Lyndon B. Johnson. 1 Reproduced with permission of the
copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

==================================================

Title: Illusion of GOP Disunity
Date: 1968-03-27
Publication: LAT
Text: Nelson Rockefeller's press confer- ence on March 21 may, as time rolls on, be appraised not only as his finest hour but as a moment of awakening among all thoughtful Republicans. It should in retrospect rise above all the cynicism of pundits and politicians, although as the questions asked him by the reporters show it was not above their reach. Aside from the incontrovertible logic of his position, a human element thrust itself through the words of Rockefeller's statement— words which may have been written in collaboration with his literary advisers. There was logic and also the voice of his own conviction when he said in answer to a question about a "moderate-conservative" split in the GOP: "Well I don't think that there is as great a conservative-moderate split as there was before in the party. I think that this is a very fortunate thing and my feeling has been that if we start from the position of getting the facts and then move to alternative solutions and problems at home and abroad and then narrow those down, we should be able to get a consensus." I would agree with everything in that statement, except the inference that in 1964 there was really such a split. At that time a suicidal brawl preceded and followed the conven- tion in San Francisco. During that bitter and unhappy time partisans of Rockefeller and Barry Goldwater enlarged upon points of difference which might have been resolved had there been time and deliberation enough to examine the facts. The use of the word "moderate" has been unfortunate and in reality insubstantial. It was born in a short period when another word, "extre- mism," had a great play in the press and in political discourse. There were, of course, people and collec- tions of people who overstepped the bounds of truth, logic and good sense, such as the Birchites. But all of the leading Republican figures at that time—former President Eisen- hower, Richard Nixon, Goldwater and Rockefeller—had repudiated such views. Nixon, Rockefeller and Gen. Eisenhower directly de- nounced the Birch Society and its views. Goldwater disagreed with the views of the society but said that many good people had joined it with- out understanding its implications. For that reason he was, during the primary season and the convention, tagged with the label "extremist" by many Republicans. The opposition thus generated within the GOP set the pattern for President Johnson and his people until the election. In that campaign the voice of logic was drowned out in emotional frenzy. There could be no real matching of the issues in such an uproar. The Republican Party as an effective alternative was hopelessly shattered. Then and since then there have been no "liberal" Republicans. The soft word "moderate" came into currency. Where and when the term "moderate" originated cannot be exactly fixed, but I suspect it was in New York. It was used there because the term "liberal" had been appropriated by a real political party which was created as a means of blackmailing the Democrats. Can- didates who were endorsed by that party billed themselves as Liberal Democratic. And to create a distinc- tion, Republicans called themselves moderate. Meanwhile, this illusion of ideolo- gical differences among Republicans obscured the real conflict, which was a regional and personal power struggle. Time was when there were real conflicts on issues within both the Republican and Democratic parties. The protective tariff was an item of sectional differences among Repub- licans in the days of Cleveland and McKinley. The great international interests centered in New York and Boston were opposed to those of the manufacturing and agricultural in- terests of the Midwest and West. But that issue is no longer major. And now, in the cold war, the issue of American international military and economic responsibilities has come to the fore. The 1968 Republi- cans might well heed the history of their own party, which in the days of Seward and Blaine and T.R. recognized our national responsibili- ty in the oceans to the east and west. Here there is room for accommo- dation in 1968 between Nixon and Rockefeller and others. And since the Democrats are torn apart in a struggle between the isolationism of Sens. J. William Fulbright, Robert Kennedy and Eugene McCarthy and the international policies of Mr. Johnson, the time is ripe for united policies among all elements of the Republican Party. There, at least, is the chance for offering a sound alternative.
Full Context: Nelson Rockefeller's press confer- ence on March 21 may, as time rolls on, be
appraised not only as his finest hour but as a moment of awakening among all
thoughtful Republicans. It should in retrospect rise above all the cynicism of
pundits and politicians, although as the questions asked him by the reporters
show it was not above their reach. Aside from the incontrovertible logic of his
position, a human element thrust itself through the words of Rockefeller's
statement— words which may have been written in collaboration with his literary
advisers. There was logic and also the voice of his own conviction when he said
in answer to a question about a "moderate-conservative" split in the GOP: "Well
I don't think that there is as great a conservative-moderate split as there was
before in the party. I think that this is a very fortunate thing and my feeling
has been that if we start from the position of getting the facts and then move
to alternative solutions and problems at home and abroad and then narrow those
down, we should be able to get a consensus." I would agree with everything in
that statement, except the inference that in 1964 there was really such a
split. At that time a suicidal brawl preceded and followed the conven- tion in
San Francisco. During that bitter and unhappy time partisans of Rockefeller and
Barry Goldwater enlarged upon points of difference which might have been
resolved had there been time and deliberation enough to examine the facts. The
use of the word "moderate" has been unfortunate and in reality insubstantial.
It was born in a short period when another word, "extre- mism," had a great
play in the press and in political discourse. There were, of course, people and
collec- tions of people who overstepped the bounds of truth, logic and good
sense, such as the Birchites. But all of the leading Republican figures at that
time—former President Eisen- hower, Richard Nixon, Goldwater and
Rockefeller—had repudiated such views. Nixon, Rockefeller and Gen. Eisenhower
directly de- nounced the Birch Society and its views. Goldwater disagreed with
the views of the society but said that many good people had joined it with- out
understanding its implications. For that reason he was, during the primary
season and the convention, tagged with the label "extremist" by many
Republicans. The opposition thus generated within the GOP set the pattern for
President Johnson and his people until the election. In that campaign the voice
of logic was drowned out in emotional frenzy. There could be no real matching
of the issues in such an uproar. The Republican Party as an effective
alternative was hopelessly shattered. Then and since then there have been no
"liberal" Republicans. The soft word "moderate" came into currency. Where and
when the term "moderate" originated cannot be exactly fixed, but I suspect it
was in New York. It was used there because the term "liberal" had been
appropriated by a real political party which was created as a means of
blackmailing the Democrats. Can- didates who were endorsed by that party billed
themselves as Liberal Democratic. And to create a distinc- tion, Republicans
called themselves moderate. Meanwhile, this illusion of ideolo- gical
differences among Republicans obscured the real conflict, which was a regional
and personal power struggle. Time was when there were real conflicts on issues
within both the Republican and Democratic parties. The protective tariff was an
item of sectional differences among Repub- licans in the days of Cleveland and
McKinley. The great international interests centered in New York and Boston
were opposed to those of the manufacturing and agricultural in- terests of the
Midwest and West. But that issue is no longer major. And now, in the cold war,
the issue of American international military and economic responsibilities has
come to the fore. The 1968 Republi- cans might well heed the history of their
own party, which in the days of Seward and Blaine and T.R. recognized our
national responsibili- ty in the oceans to the east and west. Here there is
room for accommo- dation in 1968 between Nixon and Rockefeller and others. And
since the Democrats are torn apart in a struggle between the isolationism of
Sens. J. William Fulbright, Robert Kennedy and Eugene McCarthy and the
international policies of Mr. Johnson, the time is ripe for united policies
among all elements of the Republican Party. There, at least, is the chance for
offering a sound alternative.

==================================================

Title: Goldwater's Libel Suit Could Improve Government
Date: 1968-06-05
Publication: LAT
Text: Goldwater's Libel Suit Could Improve Government BY RAYMOND MOLEY In summing up for the defense in Barry Goldwater's libel suit against the now defunct Fact magazine, its publisher and managing editor, the lawyer said that the plaintiff's motive was to help his campaign for senator in Arizona. That charge was absurd. For during a recent visit in Phoenix I was told by Goldwater's friends and associates that this lawsuit will either have no effect politically at all or will measurably hurt the former senator. His objective lies beyond the jury's verdict in his favor. It is to establish, in a clear-cut case in the U.S. Supreme Court, the limits to which a public official or a candi- date can be subject to irresponsible, defamatory attacks. If limits to criticism can legally be established, many more good men and women will be induced to seek or hold public office. For certain recent decisions of the Supreme Court have cast a murk of doubt over the question whether there are any limits beyond which public figures are safe from scurrilous abuse. Here it is necessary to consider some of the facts of the case. Goldwater's suit was brought in a New York federal court against Fact, its former publisher, Ralph Ginzburg, and its managing editor, Warren Boroson. In October, 1964, the whole issue of Fact was devoted to the attack in question. The headline was: "1,189 Psychiatrists Say Goldwater Is Psy- chologically Unfit to Be President." The magazine had sent a question- naire to 12,356 psychiatrists listed as such by the American Medical Assn. There were 2,417 replies. Of these, 657 said Goldwater was fit, 571 declined to take a position and 1,189 claimed him unfit. Among the comments of the latter group were such epithets as: "immature," "grossly psychotic," "paranoid," "mass murderer," "amoral and im- moral," "chronic schizophrenic" and "dangerous lunatic." * The nonprofessional nature of the attacks were immediately con- demned by the AMA and the American Psychiatric Assn. But, of course, this professional repudiation came after the damage was done. The publisher in question, Ginz- burg, who had no professional competence at all, contributed an editorial full of the juicy Freudian jargon embedded in the replies. It is important to note the foregoing figures. For 80% of those interrogated did not answer, no doubt because professional ethics forbids a diagnosis or prognosis when the doctor has had no contact with the "patient." Goldwater said under oath: "I have never talked with a psychiatrist in my life." A very grave question was raised when 1,846 (the 1,189 who said Goldwater was unfit and the 657 who said he was fit) gave an opinion when they had never examined the subject. The entire attack was an excellent example of the extent to which Freudianism has penetrated some aspects of psychiatric diagnosis. Psychiatry itself was, before the impact of Freud, what I have called "an art trying to be a science." Freud has plunged a terribly dange- rous element into the situation. Freudianism has already pene- trated education and the social sciences and the Fact publication threw this mishmash into politics. For Freud in his writings exercised great poetic license. Almost any paragraph is contradicted by anoth- er paragraph. Anyone attacked with this weapon is almost helpless. And the damage to rational living is increased because any amateur can use this gibberish to attack an opponent. Since the facts in the Goldwater case are so clear-cut, it is difficult to see how the court can fail to dissipate the fog created by its earlier decisions. The first of those cases, decided in 1964, concerned an advertisement in the New York Times attacking a city commissioner in Montgomery, Ala. The court by a majority of six rendered a decision, the key point of which was that the plaintiff in such an action must prove that the defamatory statement "was made with 'actual malice'—that is, with the knowledge that it was false or with reckless disregard of whether it was false or not." But as Justice Hugo Black said in a concurring opinion, malice "is an elusive, abstract concept, hard to prove and hard to disprove. The requirement that malice be proved provides at best an evanescent protection for the right critically to discuss public affairs and certainly does not measure up to the sturdy safeguard embodied in the First Amendment." Thus, the concern of the court, and especially of Justices Black and William O. Douglas, was with the publisher of defamatory statements rather than with the victim of such attacks. Moreover, the Times case clearly placed the status of a public official on a quite different ground from that of a private citizen seeking protection from defamatory attack. Two other cases involving public officials in West Virginia and Loui- siana, rendered in 1967 and 1968, followed the ruling in the Times case. However, in the case of the well- known libel suit of Wally Butts, athletic director of the University of Georgia, against the Saturday Even- ing Post, the Supreme Court in 1967 sustained the lower courts' decisions favoring Butts. And Chief Justice Earl Warren in a concurring opinion said: "I am satisfied that the evidence here discloses that degree of reckless disregard of the truth of which we spoke in the New York Times. Freedom of the press does not include license to destroy lives or careers." It is pertinent to note what Justice Abe Fortas said in dissenting with the court in the Louisiana case: "The First Amendment is not so fragile that it requires us to immu- nize this kind of reckless, destruc- tive invasion of the life, even of public officials, heedless of their interests and sensitivities. The First Amendment is not a shelter for the character assassinator, whether his action is heedless and reckless or deliberate. * "The occupation of public office- holder does not forfeit one's mem- bership in the human race. The public official should be subject to severe scrutiny and to free and open criticism. But if he is needlessly, heedlessly, falsely accused of crime, he should have a remedy in law. The New York Times case does not preclude this minimal standard of civilized living." It was not an easy decision that Goldwater made in bringing his suit. For it exposed him and his wife to a three-week ordeal in which the defense stripped to the bone every element of his public and private life. Unless the court soon clarifies the protection of public men and wo- men, our country will be governed by only the callous and thick- skinned, and political life will sink into a swamp of scurrilous gossip, lies and, in the case of Fact, Freu- dian diagnosis. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Full Context: Goldwater's Libel Suit Could Improve Government BY RAYMOND MOLEY In summing up
for the defense in Barry Goldwater's libel suit against the now defunct Fact
magazine, its publisher and managing editor, the lawyer said that the
plaintiff's motive was to help his campaign for senator in Arizona. That charge
was absurd. For during a recent visit in Phoenix I was told by Goldwater's
friends and associates that this lawsuit will either have no effect politically
at all or will measurably hurt the former senator. His objective lies beyond
the jury's verdict in his favor. It is to establish, in a clear-cut case in the
U.S. Supreme Court, the limits to which a public official or a candi- date can
be subject to irresponsible, defamatory attacks. If limits to criticism can
legally be established, many more good men and women will be induced to seek or
hold public office. For certain recent decisions of the Supreme Court have cast
a murk of doubt over the question whether there are any limits beyond which
public figures are safe from scurrilous abuse. Here it is necessary to consider
some of the facts of the case. Goldwater's suit was brought in a New York
federal court against Fact, its former publisher, Ralph Ginzburg, and its
managing editor, Warren Boroson. In October, 1964, the whole issue of Fact was
devoted to the attack in question. The headline was: "1,189 Psychiatrists Say
Goldwater Is Psy- chologically Unfit to Be President." The magazine had sent a
question- naire to 12,356 psychiatrists listed as such by the American Medical
Assn. There were 2,417 replies. Of these, 657 said Goldwater was fit, 571
declined to take a position and 1,189 claimed him unfit. Among the comments of
the latter group were such epithets as: "immature," "grossly psychotic,"
"paranoid," "mass murderer," "amoral and im- moral," "chronic schizophrenic"
and "dangerous lunatic." * The nonprofessional nature of the attacks were
immediately con- demned by the AMA and the American Psychiatric Assn. But, of
course, this professional repudiation came after the damage was done. The
publisher in question, Ginz- burg, who had no professional competence at all,
contributed an editorial full of the juicy Freudian jargon embedded in the
replies. It is important to note the foregoing figures. For 80% of those
interrogated did not answer, no doubt because professional ethics forbids a
diagnosis or prognosis when the doctor has had no contact with the "patient."
Goldwater said under oath: "I have never talked with a psychiatrist in my
life." A very grave question was raised when 1,846 (the 1,189 who said
Goldwater was unfit and the 657 who said he was fit) gave an opinion when they
had never examined the subject. The entire attack was an excellent example of
the extent to which Freudianism has penetrated some aspects of psychiatric
diagnosis. Psychiatry itself was, before the impact of Freud, what I have
called "an art trying to be a science." Freud has plunged a terribly dange-
rous element into the situation. Freudianism has already pene- trated education
and the social sciences and the Fact publication threw this mishmash into
politics. For Freud in his writings exercised great poetic license. Almost any
paragraph is contradicted by anoth- er paragraph. Anyone attacked with this
weapon is almost helpless. And the damage to rational living is increased
because any amateur can use this gibberish to attack an opponent. Since the
facts in the Goldwater case are so clear-cut, it is difficult to see how the
court can fail to dissipate the fog created by its earlier decisions. The first
of those cases, decided in 1964, concerned an advertisement in the New York
Times attacking a city commissioner in Montgomery, Ala. The court by a majority
of six rendered a decision, the key point of which was that the plaintiff in
such an action must prove that the defamatory statement "was made with 'actual
malice'—that is, with the knowledge that it was false or with reckless
disregard of whether it was false or not." But as Justice Hugo Black said in a
concurring opinion, malice "is an elusive, abstract concept, hard to prove and
hard to disprove. The requirement that malice be proved provides at best an
evanescent protection for the right critically to discuss public affairs and
certainly does not measure up to the sturdy safeguard embodied in the First
Amendment." Thus, the concern of the court, and especially of Justices Black
and William O. Douglas, was with the publisher of defamatory statements rather
than with the victim of such attacks. Moreover, the Times case clearly placed
the status of a public official on a quite different ground from that of a
private citizen seeking protection from defamatory attack. Two other cases
involving public officials in West Virginia and Loui- siana, rendered in 1967
and 1968, followed the ruling in the Times case. However, in the case of the
well- known libel suit of Wally Butts, athletic director of the University of
Georgia, against the Saturday Even- ing Post, the Supreme Court in 1967
sustained the lower courts' decisions favoring Butts. And Chief Justice Earl
Warren in a concurring opinion said: "I am satisfied that the evidence here
discloses that degree of reckless disregard of the truth of which we spoke in
the New York Times. Freedom of the press does not include license to destroy
lives or careers." It is pertinent to note what Justice Abe Fortas said in
dissenting with the court in the Louisiana case: "The First Amendment is not so
fragile that it requires us to immu- nize this kind of reckless, destruc- tive
invasion of the life, even of public officials, heedless of their interests and
sensitivities. The First Amendment is not a shelter for the character
assassinator, whether his action is heedless and reckless or deliberate. * "The
occupation of public office- holder does not forfeit one's mem- bership in the
human race. The public official should be subject to severe scrutiny and to
free and open criticism. But if he is needlessly, heedlessly, falsely accused
of crime, he should have a remedy in law. The New York Times case does not
preclude this minimal standard of civilized living." It was not an easy
decision that Goldwater made in bringing his suit. For it exposed him and his
wife to a three-week ordeal in which the defense stripped to the bone every
element of his public and private life. Unless the court soon clarifies the
protection of public men and wo- men, our country will be governed by only the
callous and thick- skinned, and political life will sink into a swamp of
scurrilous gossip, lies and, in the case of Fact, Freu- dian diagnosis.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction
prohibited without permission.
