docname	filename	year	pre	keyword	post
text124577	batch8_263_page0.txt	1938	Political candidates and new automobiles compete for our attention these early November days . Since it is the fond belief and recurrent boast of most politicians that	business	is outmoded in its thinking , inefficient in its operation and generally in dire need of the competence , vision and enlightenment possessed by political minds , it may not be a bad idea to compare the production methods and sales technique of the two types of enterprise—business and politics .

text124587	batch8_263_page0.txt	1938	Take a look at what you can see in the operations of the two groups—politicians , on the one hand , the automobile industry , for instance , on the other . There is much that the politician could learn . But the politician does not want to learn . He wants to tell	business	how it ought to operate . He says that business cannot produce “ the more abundant life . ” He promises that he can . But as you look back over the past fifty years how would you apportion the credit for the general rise that has taken place in our standard of living ? Who would you say came closest to clearing the way toward “ the more abundant life ? ”

text124587	batch8_263_page0.txt	1938	Take a look at what you can see in the operations of the two groups—politicians , on the one hand , the automobile industry , for instance , on the other . There is much that the politician could learn . But the politician does not want to learn . He wants to tell business how it ought to operate . He says that	business	cannot produce “ the more abundant life . ” He promises that he can . But as you look back over the past fifty years how would you apportion the credit for the general rise that has taken place in our standard of living ? Who would you say came closest to clearing the way toward “ the more abundant life ? ”

text124598	batch8_263_page0.txt	1938	social justice . In foreign affairs his formula was simple : “ To keep the country out of trouble is the main object of diplomacy . ” But he believed that in a world of nations , as he knew that world twenty-five years ago , the civilized process of international cooperation was possible . He labored even in the face of a breakup of the world as he had known it to keep cooperation alive . He believed that , in spite of alarms , people were getting more out of life , politics was growing more honest and	business	, more responsible .


text124610	batch8_264_page0.txt	1938	Political candidates and new automobiles compete for our attention these early November days . Since it is the fond belief and recurrent boast of most politicians that	business	is outmoded in its thinking , inefficient in its operation and generally in dire need of the competence , vision and enlightenment possessed by political minds , it may not be a bad idea to compare the production methods and sales technique of the two types of enterprise—business and politics .


text124618	batch8_264_page0.txt	1938	Take a look at what you can see in the operations of the two groups—politicians , on the one hand , the automobile industry , for instance , on the other . There is much that the politician could learn . But the politician does not want to learn . He wants to tell	business	how it ought to operate . He says that business cannot produce “ the more abundant life . ” He promises that he can . But as you look back over the past fifty years how would you apportion the credit for the general rise that has taken place in our standard of living ? Who would you say came closest to clearing the way toward “ the more abundant life ? ”


text124618	batch8_264_page0.txt	1938	Take a look at what you can see in the operations of the two groups—politicians , on the one hand , the automobile industry , for instance , on the other . There is much that the politician could learn . But the politician does not want to learn . He wants to tell business how it ought to operate . He says that	business	cannot produce “ the more abundant life . ” He promises that he can . But as you look back over the past fifty years how would you apportion the credit for the general rise that has taken place in our standard of living ? Who would you say came closest to clearing the way toward “ the more abundant life ? ”

text124629	batch8_264_page0.txt	1938	social justice . In foreign affairs his formula was simple : “ To keep the country out of trouble is the main object of diplomacy . ” But he believed that in a world of nations , as he knew that world twenty-five years ago , the civilized process of international cooperation was possible . He labored even in the face of a breakup of the world as he had known it to keep cooperation alive . He believed that , in spite of alarms , people were getting more out of life , politics was growing more honest and	business	, more responsible .

text124667	batch8_265_page0.txt	1938	a half years of public service—his honesty , his insistence upon efficiency , his resistance to the perfunctory kind of service mere politics would achieve and , above all , his indomitable courage . But it is hard to see why a man so intelligent as he should persist in giving authority to the popular confusion that identifies the possession of wealth with the exercise of corporate power . Again and again Secretary Ickes has voiced the half-truth that a given number of individuals , having legal possession of a given proportion of the national wealth , ipso facto control	business	enterprise in America . And the answer to that half-truth has been made so many times to Mr . Ickes and ignored so many times by Mr . Ickes that it is difficult to escape the conclusion that the distortion is willful .



text124711	batch8_266_page0.txt	1938	This situation cannot be met by competitive political propaganda . Certainly the common suggestion that the government set up and operate a radio station to advertise the virtues of American government and	business	in South American countries is absurd if it is considered as a solution . We cannot outtrade Krupp by outshouting Goebbels .


text124715	batch8_266_page0.txt	1938	We are going to have to discard our antique theories , do some fast thinking and quick stepping if we intend to frustrate the economic conquest of a number of Central and South American countries by Germany . As a starter , it might be well to introduce a little more practical business ability into our State and Commerce Departments . This is not a job for diplomats and politicians who have never sold a cotton shirt or a monkey wrench or a can of tomatoes . It is a job of salesmanship , of	business	enterprise .

text127035	batch8_283_page0.txt	1938	labor , on the other . Obviously , the adjustment of these spheres of jurisdiction is a difficult and delicate matter . It cannot be achieved by political methods , by sweeping legislation , by bitter controversy . It can come only at a conference table . And management can , it seems to me , be counted upon to approach such adjustments with a full realization that a new era has dawned in American economic life . It will come , as Mr . Brown says in his foreword to this symposium , with " the distilled essence of	business	experience gained over many years , tempered by great economic forces , challenged by political movements , humbled by a new social awareness . "



text127884	batch8_289_page0.txt	1938	Congressional elections have been traditionally left to politicians . This year every one of the 435 Representatives and the 32 or more Senators who is to be elected will be a vital factor in the determination of whether to remove the deterrents to healthy and legitimate	business	activity . That fact alone is reason for the active concern of all those engaged in business enterprise—large and small . And their concern—translated into action—can make the coming elections recovery elections . It can sweep into office a Recovery Congress .




text127884	batch8_289_page0.txt	1938	Congressional elections have been traditionally left to politicians . This year every one of the 435 Representatives and the 32 or more Senators who is to be elected will be a vital factor in the determination of whether to remove the deterrents to healthy and legitimate business activity . That fact alone is reason for the active concern of all those engaged in	business	enterprise—large and small . And their concern—translated into action—can make the coming elections recovery elections . It can sweep into office a Recovery Congress .


text127896	batch8_289_page0.txt	1938	Businessmen will do well to bear in mind a central fact revealed by the Pennsylvania vote . It was no reactionary victory : it was a victory for moderation , a signal by the plain citizens that America is ready for an overhauling of policies which throttle sound enterprise . These people are asking for leadership intent on preserving the best traditions of American economic and political life though it accepts responsibility for the relative well-being of all economic groups . If	business	courageously offers such leadership , they will not fail to support it .


text128091	batch8_291_page0.txt	1938	a few political risks and	business	will re -
text120582	batch8_231_page0.txt	1939	Jim was completely sincere . He likes every man to have a fair hearing . He knows that there are at least two sides to every question . He doesn't take criticism as a personal affront . Friendship with him can remain unimpaired even when differences over political or economic questions obtrude themselves . And he never forgets that his	business	is getting the votes .


text123096	batch8_251_page0.txt	1939	Business cannot easily forget the Hopkins philosophy of spending and taxing the nation into prosperity , his ribbing of businessmen in public and in private , his inexperience in business and the traditional lack of sympathy for industrial leaders that he shares with most social workers . But business may find a crumb of comfort in the fact that , when a favorite needs a “ change ” because the agency he heads has gone sour as a political asset , he is given the job of acting as a contact with	business	. There is an implied acknowledgment , here , of the increased popularity of business throughout the country .



text123096	batch8_251_page0.txt	1939	of spending and taxing the nation into prosperity , his ribbing of businessmen in public and in private , his inexperience in business and the traditional lack of sympathy for industrial leaders that he shares with most social workers . But business may find a crumb of comfort in the fact that , when a favorite needs a “ change ” because the agency he heads has gone sour as a political asset , he is given the job of acting as a contact with business . There is an implied acknowledgment , here , of the increased popularity of	business	throughout the country .



text105588	batch8_104_page0.txt	1941	political action in a democracy . Why ? Because , when all the facts are gathered , it can be shown that by more widely distributing the tax load , the whole nation will be better able to weather the storms ahead . Some people have seen that for a long time . In the face of every discouragement , they have continued to say it . Some of these people are citizens who have written to their congressmen . Some have written to their newspapers . Some have talked of it to their friends . Other people , whose	business	it is to write and speak , have written and spoken about it . So what started as a small minority movement became a strong , forcible voice . Which is something to remember when it seems as if the efforts of simple citizens in the minority are ineffective and futile . The facts—and a persistent expression of the facts—are irresistible .


text110274	batch8_140_page0.txt	1941	well . Leisurely , lazy , verbose , suspicious , it too has a language and a code of propriety all its own . This is not to say that direct partisan privilege is obtruding itself . It is to say that as long as this is a democracy , public work will pass through the hands of people whose patterns of thought and conduct have been shaped by experience in politics . No one will change that either . Finally , there is now introduced into this complex situation a large sector of a third world—the world of private	business	. Here is another language , another set of values and another set of work habits .


text101584	batch8_48_page0.txt	1942	This war has created an unprecedented relationship between our two countries . In military and naval matters , our affairs are interwoven everywhere . Clearly the decisions jointly arrived at are not matters that the public should dictate . On the other hand , political questions are matters in which , on principle , each country must have independence . We would bitterly resent British interference in matters before Congress or the electorate . Matters of colonial policy in Great Britain are subject to parliamentary decisions . They are none of our	business	except insofar as they are quietly handled through diplomatic channels . A rigorous respect for these distinctions will do much to maintain good will .


text103383	batch8_73_page0.txt	1942	Beyond this , it is possible only to say that political currents in wartime run deep . In 1918 , our only possible parallel , an anti-Administration current was not clear until election day , when it broke all bounds . But parallels are not dependable in politics , or in war or in	business	.


text98845	batch8_18_page0.txt	1943	The American Communist party , as such , was never a formidable danger to this country in the sense that it was able to determine or deflect the course of American politics . It was too small , too foreign , too ignorant of America . We need not fear Communism , with or without the support of the Comintern , in America . The real danger lies elsewhere . It lies in state capitalism . It lies in those who believe that the industrial structure has matured to the point of senility and that the future of	business	will be dominated by government credit .



text99568	batch8_28_page0.txt	1943	For ten years after 1922 , the office of the governor of New York was the center of an intense concern with national politics . Three times in those ten years a governor of New York sought the Presidential nomination . Twice , in ’ 23 and ’ 32 , he got it . State	business	in those years seemed remote and secondary . It was a matter of no interest to the swarm of visitors from other states who came to the shrine .



text99570	batch8_28_page0.txt	1943	State business has the exclusive right of way now . It’s moving faster than it has for many years . Nobody is talking about national politics , and nobody , apparently , is thinking about it . But state	business	can be tremendously colorful when Gov . Thomas E . Dewey is directing it .


text94950	batch7_362_page0.txt	1944	, through Mr . Hopkins and the long-distance wire , the President called all the plays . This time , the control was remote , casual and almost indifferent . The President's letters to Messrs . Hannegan and Jackson had none of the old-time zing and authority . One old-timer said sadly , " The Roosevelt who fought Murphy would never have agreed to take Truman . " And it is one of the eternal laws of politics that as authority declines in one spot , another force grows elsewhere . The bosses are always there . It is their	business	to maintain a perennial reach for power . They were there before the New Deal . They will be there after it is gone . They need the President to help carry their local tickets . Now he needs them to hold his party together .


text92788	batch7_325_page0.txt	1945	There will be no sudden exodus of many New Dealers from Washington . President Truman is a shrewd and cautious man . Every effort will be made to assure continuity of major Roosevelt policies and personnel . But as time passes , appointments will tend to bring regular Democrats in and to allow the politically unorthodox to drop out . The atmosphere will be unfavorable to extremists . There will be little amendment of New Deal laws for a considerable time . But the administration of those laws will finally be more favorable to	business	.



text88117	batch7_256_page0.txt	1946	Another impression is the growing importance of just plain good government as an issue , especially in contests for governorships . Social justice , share-the-wealth and political corruption are strangely absent in state campaigns . It is significant that in the two key states of California and New York Governors Warren and Dewey are enjoying increased popularity because they are thought to have worked hard at the routine but essential	business	of running state government . Here in Colorado , the Republican party denied a renomination for Gov . George C . Vivian , for no reason except that he was regarded as incompetent .


text84910	batch7_216_page0.txt	1947	But a Presidential election is decided on broad and deep political currents . This is shown in an analysis of Roosevelt's four victories . In 1932 , we were sunk in a depression , and Roosevelt's farm program won many normally Republican states . In 1936 , Roosevelt was riding the crest of a genuine	business	upturn . In 1940 and 1944 , the decisive factors were the war and the votes of the big cities .
text86400	batch7_232_page0.txt	1947	There is no lack of color in Louisiana politics , and there are no bounds to the ultimate importance of the state in the nation's	business	.


text73622	batch7_90_page0.txt	1949	ONCE more there is played that lusty perennial of the political stage , " Is It Wrong to Be Big in	Business	? " The production is offered this time by the House Judiciary Committee , and the active director is the chairman , Emanuel Celler . For the most part , the questions propounded to the witnesses hark back to far-off days when other political figures gained fame in this play . Long ago there was William Jennings Bryan , with a fistful of figures and an armful of words . Later there were Arsène Pujo and his counsel , Samuel Untermyer . Then there was Frank Walsh . And finally , before the recent war , there was Sen .



text73628	batch7_90_page0.txt	1949	THE world has moved , but the political mind tarries . Moreover , there has been progress in economic research—cold , analytical , impartial—and a survey of the fruits of that research can provide answers , mostly reassuring , to the questions of public interest involved in	business	size . Without , it may be added , a Congressional investigation .


text75057	batch7_108_page0.txt	1949	ALTHOUGH , like all political wirepullers , Samish likes to seem mysterious , his power is based on a few simple matters . He is thoroughly experienced in legislative affairs , since he has been in and around Sacramento nearly all his life . He has seen solons and executives come and go . He has made it his	business	to know all about them and to have them know enough about him to arrest attention , respect , and gratitude . Throughout the state he has organized and mobilized almost all the tens of thousands of businesses and individuals related to the distribution and sale of liquid refreshment . And he has learned how to use those once highly touted instruments of democracy , the initiative and referendum , for his purposes . For Samish is a propagandist of no mean parts .

text71738	batch7_73_page0.txt	1950	in all political attacks on	business	. *


text73188	batch7_85_page0.txt	1950	The Truman Administration treats the co-ops with profound consideration . And in typically political fashion it tries to characterize all efforts to subject them to fair taxation as a vile plot to destroy them . President Truman in his Des Moines Labor Day speech to the farmers said : " This Congress will not listen to those who want to tax cooperatives out of	business	. "



text63542	batch6_283_page0.txt	1952	theory with a practical handbook for political action . The tone is moderate , the demonstration of the cost of statism unimpassioned and apparently unanswerable , and the proposed remedies simple , within reach of all voters , and seemingly as likely to succeed as any course of action in anything so uncertain as a Presidential election . After a somewhat tentative beginning , summarizing the underlying principles of the American constitutional system , Moley settles down to a factual review of the forms of government intervention in the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations-into state and local tax sources ; into	business	, with some 100 Federal enterprises ( $ 20,000,000,000 ) selling fertilizers , farm produce , and operating ships , foundries , and railroads , with 40 government agencies lending money ; into medicine , in which the government's expenditures ( $ 2,000,000,000 ) are greater than the expenditures for socialized medicine in Britain in two years under the Labor government ; into the electrical utility business ; into cooperatives which now number 32,246 ( $ 7,182,185,001 in 1945 ) and handle , for example , 75 per cent of all the milk sold in the country ; into welfare


text63574	batch6_284_page0.txt	1952	The very nature of a political establishment makes it unsuitable for the conduct of	business	enterprises . Politics speaks another language , obeys another code of conduct , and , as the foregoing shows , responds to another set of statistics .



text55202	batch6_190_page0.txt	1953	“ Old Bob’s ” early labors in Wisconsin were those of a reformer . He sought and , to a degree , succeeded in purging the political life of his state of corrupt alliances between	business	and politics . He built a pattern of regulation designed to prevent such alliances in the future .



text51316	batch6_142_page0.txt	1954	with the aid of trick bookkeeping and subtle political slogans like " democracy on the march , " it has grown and grown . Of course , the poor old sluggish Tennessee River could not sustain the demand for a vast power monopoly . Water can fall just so far . Steam now supplies 62 per cent of the power generated by the TVA . This huge paternalistic machine has bent all thinking in the valley to its defense . Conformity to the TVA is normal and requisite in the region for politicians , leaders of opinion , and even	business	organizations . You believe in the TVA , or else ! Youthful prospects for indoctrination are taken by pink professors from the North on vernal tours to the TVA shrine . The New York Times , in which the TVA is a sacred cow , says with reverent feeling that it is " more than a job of work . It is a philosophy . "



text54302	batch6_179_page0.txt	1954	He has , above all , a deep sense of the realities and of the fundamental principles of politics . Years in the newspaper	business	have left him with not merely the usual assortment of more or less interesting anecdotes of the great and near-great , but with a firm philosophy of politics and life built of solid pieces chipped from the rocks of human experience . This is unattainable for most of those who venture into politics from more specialized callings . For politics is the art of all things human . Woodrow Wilson , cribbing from Walter Bagehot , a journalist , said that " nothing that is human is alien to the science of politics . "


text43882	batch6_53_page0.txt	1956	IN THE past two months I have talked with and to many business and professional men , in and out of politics , in Ohio , Michigan , Oregon , Washington , and California . My concern has been the neglected role of	business	executives , professional people , the heads and employees of small independent businesses , and others in the political life of the nation . If that role is neglected this year , we are liable to be ruled by a Congress and by many State Legislatures in which the AFL-CIO Committee on Political Education ( COPE ) and radical farmers ' organizations will call the tune and all the rest of us will pay the piper .



text43890	batch6_53_page0.txt	1956	The time has long since passed when this enormous body of training and experience in management , selling , and human relations can stand aloof from the supreme responsibility of helping to govern the nation . Politics is not only everybody's business , but politics is in everybody's	business	. Election statistics over the past twenty years show that the regular party organizations have just about reached their maximum capacity to get out the vote . The regulars must have help not only from many more new people in their organizations but from auxiliary citizens ' groups . The " liberal " wing of the Democratic Party receives such help from COPE and the ADA . There is no such help for hard-pressed Republican candidates in the North and conservative Democrats in the South—candidates for Congress and the State Legislatures .



text43951	batch6_55_page0.txt	1956	Those who could and should create comparable local auxiliaries for conservative candidates and principles are business and professional people who have usually been indifferent or afraid . Perhaps because demagogues have railed so much against business in government , they are stricken with the fear that they are not wanted in politics . Thus it has been good politics to be anti-business because it causes businessmen to be nonpolitical . But we must have more businessmen in politics or there will be a whale of a lot more politics in	business	.



text44246	batch6_58_page0.txt	1956	unfit for public office or public trust . They feel that his reckless attacks , particularly on the press and private business , array class against class and shatter the pattern of friendly community life . But as I have observed politics in Oregon in the course of many visits to the state , and as I have known Morse since he was a student at Columbia University 26 years ago , I can see a pattern in this demagoguery . Morse is not so much concerned with converting the generality of voters as in planting in the minds of	business	managers a sense of helplessness . He wants to keep them out of politics , and his strategy has so far measurably succeeded . If there had been a strong drive by conservatives such as marked the campaign for Taft in Ohio in 1950 , Morse would never have been re-elected in that year . A vigorous stirring of people of capacity and influence in Oregon in 1954 might have prevented the election of Senator Neuberger . The question this year is whether the neglect which prevailed in those two unfortunate occasions will or will not be repeated .


text44916	batch6_68_page0.txt	1956	A thin , shrill complaining theme runs through most of the political discourse opposed to the Eisenhower Administration . It is the accusation that this Administration is " giving away " the great natural resources—minerals , timber , waterpower—the heritage of " the people " — to certain people who because they are in	business	are therefore rascals . The assets involved are thus " lost " to " the people " forever . A conservative Administration , it is asserted , does not conserve . It dissipates and destroys . This political routine is an effort to raise the ghosts of long ago , when there were real rascals and when our resources were truly wasted and given away . Government then was not only wayward but wayless .


text44924	batch6_68_page0.txt	1956	However , for two decades after the great depression politicians made	business	and businessmen the objects of derision and attack . Many members of the Roosevelt-Truman Administrations and their supporters in Congress leaned toward Federal collectivism . Notable among these were men such as Harold Ickes and Henry Wallace , who occupied key positions in the administration of natural resources . Under them there grew up a bureaucracy impregnated with the Ickes-Wallace philosophy . Despite the change of party control in 1953 and the declaration in the new , Eisenhower philosophy that the cold war between business and government should end , the old bureaucracy held over . Many members of that



text44924	batch6_68_page0.txt	1956	However , for two decades after the great depression politicians made business and businessmen the objects of derision and attack . Many members of the Roosevelt-Truman Administrations and their supporters in Congress leaned toward Federal collectivism . Notable among these were men such as Harold Ickes and Henry Wallace , who occupied key positions in the administration of natural resources . Under them there grew up a bureaucracy impregnated with the Ickes-Wallace philosophy . Despite the change of party control in 1953 and the declaration in the new , Eisenhower philosophy that the cold war between	business	and government should end , the old bureaucracy held over . Many members of that bureaucracy have found common cause with collectivist , public-ownership politicians in Congress , and a number of " giveaway " charges have emerged which are being actively exploited by the various aspirants for the Democratic nomination and by former President Truman .



text36174	batch4_46_page0.txt	1958	" How to do it ? Get out in politics , working at the local level , and encourage your juniors to do it , too . Work at the local level . In the precinct or block or over the Congressional district . Go and see people in their homes and discuss politics—why they should vote and how . Go not as a representative of	business	but as a fellow member of the great , conservative , unorganized middle majority . Practically all of us are in that class now , as we are becoming an essentially classless society . In the great scramble we are all forgotten men . "


text37265	batch5_17_page0.txt	1958	The root of corruption then was in political power derived from big money in illicit liquor , gambling , public privileges , etc . Back before 1920 , it was gambling , liquor violations , crooked contracting , and prostitution . At the turn of the century , big	business	money was a factor , too . The picture fades into Tweed and his predecessors . The trail goes back to the shadowy border where history dims into legend and myth . It was not Helen’s face that launched a thousand ships against the topless towers of Ilium . It was Greek determination to smash the racket that was Troy , which preyed upon Asiatic commerce with the Mediterranean .


text31821	batch3_55_page0.txt	1959	The political labor unions in America and the British socialists alike encourage a class division—the rich and big	business	against the poor . This class appeal utterly failed in this election . The great and growing middle group , who are a majority in both countries , want no class struggle . Both British and American workers are coming to scorn the idea that they are a class apart .

text32754	batch4_3_page0.txt	1959	American businessmen have traveled a long and stony road since 1948 when in a Presidential election tens of millions of Americans refrained from voting at all . Meanwhile , special interests who have multiplied their talents in political affairs have won victory after victory . Free institutions demand the enlistment of all talents .	Business	has those talents , and they should be used .



text30424	batch3_31_page0.txt	1960	Ever since the Progressive era 50 years ago , some politicians ’ favorite theme has been the crimes and evils of	business	and businessmen . This has infected many businessmen with what might be called complexes .



text30426	batch3_31_page0.txt	1960	One of these is their conviction that , while they can have the trust and confidence of customers , they are unpopular with voters . Another is the belief that the art of persuasion that sells goods differs fundamentally from the art of winning elections . A third is the idea that mixing in politics hurts a man’s	business	.


text30442	batch3_31_page0.txt	1960	There will be raised eyebrows among political cognoscenti at the suggestion that good government and good candidates can be “ sold ” just as farm implements and hardware are marketed . But there is truth in the analogy . People buy from people whom they like and trust . They vote for the same reasons when the issues are not obscured by class appeals and demagoguery . Both politics and	business	require friendly personal contacts and persuasion . Paul Fannin has provided abundant proof of that durable fact .



text24159	batch2_219_page0.txt	1961	Few Americans will fail to deplore the mediocrity of the public discourse of our political leaders and statesmen . In large part it consists of flagrant appeals to the stomach and pocketbook , demagogic attacks upon	business	for sins of long ago , irrelevant lint-picking , and canned , ghostwritten speeches—all clothed in jargon which only partially covers the stark nakedness of thought .
text18549	batch2_155_page0.txt	1962	But the implementation of the law through practical , experienced , skillful administrators calls for uncommon people . Here liberalism has its fatal weakness . The liberal politician and voter distrust	business	. But American business has the richest pool of executive talent in the world . In most of our states only average executives fumble with very difficult jobs . There is the rub . A fool in the pulpit can make the Divine Word a superstitious travesty .
text18549	batch2_155_page0.txt	1962	But the implementation of the law through practical , experienced , skillful administrators calls for uncommon people . Here liberalism has its fatal weakness . The liberal politician and voter distrust business . But American	business	has the richest pool of executive talent in the world . In most of our states only average executives fumble with very difficult jobs . There is the rub . A fool in the pulpit can make the Divine Word a superstitious travesty .
