=== FILE: batch1_10_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure.  Due to the image quality, some words may be slightly inaccurate.

**PERSPECTIVE**

**TITAN UNBOUND, II**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

In a piece two weeks ago I noted that a major, probably the major, long-term policy of the Soviet Union is to stay out of a great war, and, by developing a massive sea potential, to break out of its traditional landlocked isolation. That policy, created even before the death of Stalin fourteen years ago, has been binding upon all Russian leaders since. Some five-year economic plans have fallen short. But naval strength and seagoing commerce have even outpaced their original objectives.

At the end of World War II the Soviet merchant fleet was insignificant. When Stalin died in 1953 his government's 500 ships aggregated 1.5 million gross registered tons. Then maritime policy accelerated, and in five years an 80 per cent increase was made. That brought Russia into twelfth place among maritime nations. A seven-year plan began in 1959, and the fleet expanded to 7,290,000 gross tons, with 1,437 ships.

The economic potential of a merchant marine is measured not only in the number of units and total tonnage but in age. A technological revolution is a swift destroyer. Here the Russians, building from little, have a great competitive advantage. In 1964, 48 per cent of their dry-cargo ships and 63 per cent of their tankers were less than four years old. Only 22 per cent of the total were more than nineteen years old.

**AMERICA, THE OBSOLETE**

goslavia, East and West Germany, Japan, Italy, Poland, Sweden, Holland, Britain, Denmark—a good customer paying billions in cash and meticulously abiding by contracts.

The American active merchant marine is overwhelmingly obsolete—70 per cent of World War II vintage. To meet our needs in Vietnam, decayed relics are hauled out from the rusty reserves. They break down and are towed into port. These ships are the stigmata of our maritime sickness. The building program, which the Maritime Administration describes as proceeding “at a deliberate [snail’s] pace,” is 100 ships behind schedule. A baker’s dozen are delivered annually. Last year 109 of the reserve fleet were turned into scrap. There is a great tanker and bulk carrier fleet built for American owners and sailing under many flags, and some serve in the war in Vietnam. But their contribution to American employment is mainly a bonanza to admiralty lawyers.

**MONUMENTAL CHALLENGE**

The Maritime Administration’s figures on deliveries of new merchant ships are most significant. The U.S.S.R. added 100 new vessels in 1966 and in addition received 55 transfers from thirteen countries. The U.S.A. added thirteen. Robert L. Nichols, in “A Survey of Russian Shipping,” derived from Russian sources, notes that in a single year the Russians added more new ships than the U.S.A. built in five years. Only 386 ships have been built for the U.S. flag since 1947. But even more important so far as the future is concerned is the fact that as of May 1966 the Soviet had 581 ships under construction or on order.

“Jane’s Fighting Ships, 1966-1967” makes particular reference to the Soviet Union’s 2,000 merchant ships aggregating 9.5 million gross tons as an adjunct of naval strength. Her naval forces are now deployed on a worldwide scale. Her merchant fleet is “twice as big numerically and four times the size in capacity as it was only a decade ago, and is now the sixth largest in the world … the time has now come when [Russia] can exploit the oceans to the full.”

The U.S.S.R. seeks not only monetary returns but the multiplication of influence everywhere. Landlocked isolation is gone forever. Seapower is a reality and, to Americans, a monumental challenge.

**Newsweek, August 7, 1967**

=== FILE: batch1_14_page0.txt ===
Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

THE BATTLESHIP RETURNS

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It has taken an intolerably long time
to bring more of our great naval
potential into the war in Vietnam.
Chairman Richard B. Russell of the
Senate Armed Services Committee
has been urging the reactivation of
one or more of our four powerful battleships, which since the Korean War
have been resting in Navy yards. The
Chief of Naval Operations for some
time believed this to be unnecessary.
But two months ago a noted retired
admiral told me that the subject was
high on the list of decisions to be
made at the President's conference at
Guam. Apparently no decision was
made at that time, for Russell argued
once more for the subject in the Senate on April 10. Now it is reliably reported the Defense Department has
decided that the battleship New Jersey
is to be reactivated and used.

These ships have been carefully
preserved. What is needed is to remove the plastic cocoons and oils,
check and supplement their wiring
systems, install modern radar equipment, put them to sea and after gun-
nery practice attach them to the fleet
off Vietnam.

VULNERABLE COASTLINE

Hanson W. Baldwin in *The New
York Times* estimates that the New
Jersey could see action in something
more than nine months. But some
Navy men believe, because complete
battle capability is not necessary to
attack targets on the Asiatic coast,
less than that time will suffice.

The battleship can powerfully supplement almost all the elements we
are using in the war. To destroy rail
tracks, tunnels and bridges on the
north coast of Vietnam naval guns are
perhaps the most effective of our arsenal of conventional weapons. The
complement of battleships includes
nine 16-inch guns and four times the
number of 5-inch guns and anti-aircraft firepower of one destroyer. The
weight of a 16-inch projectile is something more than 2,000 pounds, more
than eight times that of the projectiles
of 8- or 6-inch guns of cruisers now
in use over there.

The range is more than 20 miles,
but Senator Russell claims that with
modern propellants the range can
approach 40 miles. This would bring
under pinpoint bombardment 500 to


600 vital targets along the strategic
routes from north to south. From
Haiphong and Hanoi south there are
two routes. One of these at this time
is used against the marines south of
the DMZ. It would be within range
of the 16-inch guns.

A glance at the map suggests that
at the narrow neck of North Vietnam
the range of the battleship spans almost the whole breadth of the country, cutting across vital road and railway lines from the north. With this
access closed, only jungle roads remain to the aggressor.

SUPERIOR ACCURACY

Our destroyers have come under
the damaging fire of shore batteries installed by Hanoi. These could be put
out of action by battleships.

Unlike aircraft, battleships can operate in bad weather and around the
clock. The accuracy of their fire is superior to that of aircraft, which must
contend with ground fire and enemy
aircraft.

The cost of reactivating one battleship is estimated at between $11 million and $20 million. But over a period
of time a battleship off Vietnam can
put more weight of shells on targets at
less expense than other arms. Lives of
air crews, which cannot be measured
in dollars, and their aircraft that may
cost more than $3 million each are being expended on targets that could as
well be erased by naval guns. The
battleship can accomplish supremely
well a number of missions unfulfilled
by other effective support weapons—
artillery, aircraft and tanks.

These immensely powerful ships
seem to have nine lives. In the late
1920s it was believed, after Gen. Billy
Mitchell had destroyed an old dreadnought with aircraft, that their day
was done. In the 1930s they were regarded as obsolete. But in the Pacific
island war the battleship rose phoenix-like from Ford Island to take its place
in the line. It was supplanted as the
first ship of the line by the carrier. But
it proved itself an almost invulnerable
anti-aircraft platform in protecting the
carrier and as an incomparable shore-bombardment as well as close-support
weapon. Then after a few years of inactivity it proved itself in the Korean
conflict. Now, once more, it may well
prove its value in Vietnam.

Newsweek, May 29, 1967

=== FILE: batch1_3_page0.txt ===
Here's the extracted text from the provided image, preserving the column structure:

**PERSPECTIVE**

**A LOOK BEYOND THE WAR**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

Richard Nixon's contribution to the
multilogue on Vietnam looks be-
yond enlisting support for his nomina-
tion, for he is giving his party a foreign
policy fit for all seasons, an asset the
GOP needs as it looks toward 1968.
For this, Republicans should consider
themselves deeply in his debt.
The President will be very hard to
beat in 1968 if the limited objectives
of our military effort are achieved in
the next ten months. In that case LBJ
will emerge as something of a hero
and something of a seer. Pollsters will
revise their popularity ratings, party
critics will subside, Democrats will
unite and loud hosannas will rise from
the populace.
The Republican Party will need a
spokesman who not only is broadly ex-
perienced in foreign affairs but who
has a viable set of views about the Far
Pacific and Asia. This must not only
encompass support for a war which
has cost the United States so much
but look beyond the war to the re-
sponsibilities of the United States.
Any Republican possibility who fa-
vors either our isolation from the per-
imeter of China or the obliteration of
North Vietnam could not possibly pre-
vail against the President, whatever
may happen during the next year.
Among the GOP aspirants, Richard
Nixon is unique in his firsthand, long-
term study of Asia and the Pacific, in
his comprehension of the objectives of
the Communist system and the fears
and hopes and interests of the still
non-Communist countries on the pe-
riphery of eastern Asia.

**NIXON'S EXPERIENCE**

Fourteen years ago, after a mission
in which he visited those places, in-
cluding Hanoi and Saigon, he warned
Americans of the plight of Southeast
Asia and favored some help to the
beleaguered French. Secretary Dul-
les and Joint Chiefs chairman Radford
agreed with him. Radford, except for
MacArthur, was our most experienced
military leader in Asiatic and Pacific
affairs. But the President hesitated,
France withdrew and there emerged
the succession of events which ended
in our armed intervention.
Nixon's position then and now has
been that with the Communist system
-either Russia or China or both-dom-
inant in Southeast Asia, the gateway
to the Indian Ocean would be ex-
posed and all the countries on the per-
imeter, from Japan to Australia and
India, would be menaced by Commu-
nist military aggression and economic
exploitation. That would be the pre-
liminary to World War III.
Nixon's judgment of our present
military effort is that never has so
much power been so ineffectively
used. But if we prevail despite our
mistakes, any settlement must avoid
two extremes. One is a phony neu-
tralization of South Vietnam. The
other is the creation of a vacuum in
North Vietnam, into which Red China
would certainly move. And Russia
would demand compensation for its
present involvement, which has con-
tributed 100 per cent of Hanoi's oil
and 80 per cent of its sophisticated
weapons.

**CANNOT ACCEPT ISOLATION**

But, Nixon says, the foreign policy
of a great power like ours must look
beyond the war to its aftermath. For
war in this instance, as always, is a
temporary crisis in the long processes
of diplomatic policy. Most of our wars
have created problems greater than
those for which we took up arms.
Our sea, air and economic power
impose responsibilities in the long fu-
ture in non-Communist Asia. We can-
not escape this. And safety for the
non-Communist world in the Pacific
will demand new efforts to create mu-
tual interests and mutual aid among
those countries. This would be a sub-
stitute for SEATO, which was virtu-
ally imposed from Europe (which
has now just about abandoned the
Far East) and the United States. In
that postwar era the United States
must provide encouragement, eco-
nomic aid and military protection.
While our stand in Vietnam has done
much to convince those countries that
Communism is not necessarily the
wave of the future, they will need
help for a considerable time. We can-
not accept isolation when our interests
and those of the countries of the free
world are involved.
It is not Communist China alone
that is the great future threat. Rus-
sia, with the mobility of its vast new
maritime strength and its designs for
economic and ideological penetration,
will be a permanent power in the
Pacific. This must be balanced by our
own presence and our own concern
for the protection of the independ-
ence of the countries involved.
Nixon's view of the future should
also be the policy of his party.

**Newsweek, November 27, 1967**

=== FILE: batch1_41_page0.txt ===
PERSPECTIVE

THE USES OF POWER

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

One of Shakespeare’s well-known
aphorisms, which raises more
questions than it answers, says that
while it is “excellent to have a giant’s
strength,” it is “tyrannous to use it
like a giant.” I venture to suggest
that a giant may not enjoy his giant-
hood. It engenders in his associations
with other creatures a mixture of
fear and envy and of unhappiness
even among those whom he is dis-
posed to help. Those who thought-
fully contemplate his large lineaments
are likely to conclude that in building
his physical proportions Mother Na-
ture may have neglected the growth
of his intelligence. And indeed an ex-
amination of the evidence shows that
this disparity is often found among
men, animals and fish. In the past it
has not been unknown in the society
of nations.

The vital question raised by
Shakespeare is how a giant should
use his strength. And that is the nub
of the issue today between President
Johnson and those who have violently
attacked his intervention in Santo Do-
mingo and South Vietnam. How
should we behave as a world power?
For the United States is a giant
among nations. No statesman willed it
to be, and no political regime created
its strength. There were great ad-
vantages in geographical location, in
natural resources and the process of
selection which brought over from
Europe so many of the most vigorous,
self-reliant, imaginative and creative
members of old and mostly tired pop-
ulations. These people, detached by
the ocean from the wars and rivalries
of their homelands, exploited the re-
sources they found. That is what
made the United States what it is.

TO HELP OTHERS

But we now find that many sorts of
raw materials are required that are
not available at home. Of 77 strategic
materials required for survival in our
technological civilization, 65 must be
imported by sea. To keep these es-
sential supplies coming, not only must
we have the money to pay for them,
but a powerful Navy must keep the
channels of access open to us and
other free nations.

With our own strength established,
we have a moral obligation to help
those peoples too weak to help them-
selves. This does not involve a protec-
torate or a revival of colonialism.
By direct treaty and otherwise, we
have pledged to protect the inde-
pendence of 60 peoples and nations
from aggression.

In fulfilling that responsibility we
have given many billions in economic
and military assistance. This aid, not
always dispensed without waste, has
meant in many instances the margin
necessary for survival.

POPULARITY NO TEST

The United Nations which could
not live without our financial and
moral support, provides for many na-
tions, new and old, an international
meeting place where their identities
can be established and their prob-
lems can be made known.

A great power, thus meeting its
responsibilities, can hardly expect
general affection or popularity. That
is seldom granted to those who are
strong, among individuals or among
nations.

But we have earned what we
should expect, which is respect.
A word commonly used for this is
“credibility.” Those whom we help
and those we oppose must learn that
we mean what we say and that we
will live up to our pledges.

In every Berlin crisis we made
clear that we were prepared to en-
force Western rights. We brought aid
to South Korea and later to Formosa.
Credibility was strengthened in the
Cuban missile crisis. The same assur-
ance was given to Latin America
when President Johnson brought
peace to Santo Domingo. And now
the test is in South Vietnam.

Voices of criticism are heard not
only from the nations we have helped
but in Congress, in the press and
among our own people. But the Presi-
dent can be assured that in every
country threatened by Communist ag-
gression there is profound relief,
often privately expressed, that the
United States is serious in its purpose
to resist Communist imperialism.

The President who, it is said, rather
wistfully longs for love, can be as-
sured that if he stands firm against
his critics at home and abroad, his
commitment in Vietnam will have a
favorable verdict when the history of
these times is written.

Newsweek, August 15, 1966

=== FILE: batch1_44_page0.txt ===
Here's the extracted text from the provided image, preserving the column structure:

**PERSPECTIVE**

**EAST OF SUEZ**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

We Americans, with few exceptions, have scarcely thought of the Indian Ocean since we studied geography in our school days. But now it might be well for all of us to examine a map of that great expanse, to count the 37 nations that it touches and especially note the two channels that connect it with the rest of the world, Suez and the Red Sea at the west and the Strait of Malacca at the east. And while the map is before us, observe that Southeast Asia is a peninsula at the tip of which is South Vietnam. That reveals more about the reason why the United States must make sure that Communism cannot be allowed to occupy that strategic point than all the Senate hearings and debate and most of what the President has said.

For the grim truth that leaps forth from that map is that Communist domination of the tip of that peninsula, with land-based air power and havens for submarines, could assure control of the Strait of Malacca. That, in war or cold war, would frustrate access not only to Australia and India but to most of the countries washed by the Indian Ocean.

**THE BRITISH WITHDRAWAL**

An official government publication is entitled "The New Four Ocean Challenge." It makes the valid point that our maritime responsibility must now encompass not only the Atlantic and Pacific but the Arctic and the Afro-Asian oceans. The nuclear-powered submarine and the Polaris missile have unlocked the Arctic to naval power. The Afro-Asian expanse has been consigned to our concern by the liquidation of the British Empire and the decline of British sea power. The British Government has recently announced its plan to liquidate its great base at Aden and to substitute land-based planes for aircraft carriers. This leaves a power vacuum in the vast expanse east of Suez which the British expect us to fill. And we must accept that burden or Communism from China and the growing sea power of Soviet Russia will. The Indian Ocean cannot be dominated alone by the land-based aircraft of the British.

Freedom of the seas is a relative term. It must be maintained by the nation that has the military power to assure it. We can be sure that the countries that border on the Indian Ocean would not be secure if they looked out upon waters dominated by Communist power.

But at this time we have no fleet to patrol that area of sea water. Our force there is only two destroyers and one seaplane tender. Therefore, the United States must depend upon mobility in shifting parts of our fleet through the Strait of Malacca from the Pacific. With access closed, that could not be assured. That access is now as important to us and the free world as are the Caribbean and the Panama Canal.

**SOVIET SEA POWER**

For Soviet Russia is rapidly building its naval power. It is now second only to us on the sea. It has more than 400 submarines, 25 of which are nuclear-powered and equipped with missiles, as well as many other modern warships. It already has that other component of sea power, a vast merchant fleet.

For the time being, the Soviet's cold wet war consists in squeezing the spots of interocean passage. The Cuban episode of 1962 should be fresh in our minds. There is the pattern of Communist nourishment of disorder and movement of military power into the proximity of the narrow sea passages, as at Panama and Suez. There are Soviet attempts now to establish a base in North Africa to dominate the Strait of Gibraltar. The Soviet support of North Vietnam is part of the same strategy.

With maritime mobility we may not need permanent bases in Vietnam. Ambassador Goldberg has assured the U.N. that bases there are not a part of our plan.

All this may be alarming to Americans still possessed by a landlocked mentality, to quasi-statesmen like Fulbright and Morse who believe a negotiating table to be the end-all of trouble. Or to the cunning calculations of Robert Kennedy, who is willing to make political capital of the ignorance of the President's critics. Those misguided people who parade with the slogan "get out of Vietnam" would roll back 70 years of American history.

**Newsweek, July 25, 1966**

=== FILE: batch1_45_page0.txt ===
Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

MAHAN'S LONG SHADOW

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Critics of President Johnson are now
attacking the multiplicity of his
reasons for pursuing and stepping up
the war in Vietnam. It must be ad-
mitted that there is some confusion,
perhaps contradiction, among his
stated war aims. But there is a single
valid reason why we must not permit
the Communists to dominate the pen-
insula on which South Vietnam is the
key to control. If I may anticipate my
argument, that reason is geographical.
One response to the President's
critics is that in every war there are
stated reasons, and behind these is a
real reason. In the past 68 years the
United States has participated in five
wars. In every case Presidents have
been as diffuse as LBJ in their justifi-
cations for our sacrifice. Among these
justifications there has been plenty of
lofty idealism. In this case, it is to
satisfy the compassionate at home
and the empty bellies in Asia. As
Mary Poppins said: "A spoonful of
sugar makes the medicine go down."
To explain what I mean, a bit of
history is necessary. In 1898 a reluc-
tant President McKinley at last as-
sented to war with Spain for the sake
of "humanity" and to pursue Ameri-
can "interests." But the war party,
then headed by Assistant Navy Sec-
retary Theodore Roosevelt, Senator
Lodge and others, had a very defi-
nite "interest" in mind.

STRUGGLE FOR SEA POWER

TR had thoroughly absorbed Al-
fred Thayer Mahan's great seminal
book "The Influence of Sea Power
Upon History." He was, in fact,
closely in touch with the then Cap-
tain Mahan. It was clear that Spain
must be routed out of Cuba, the gate-
way to the contemplated isthmian
canal destined to be one of the major
sea passages of the world.
Mahan was signally honored in
Britain, where statesmen had under-
stood sea power ever since Nelson.
He had an avid student in the Kaiser
who, it was said, kept the Mahan
book at his bedside and had com-
manded that it be read by all his
naval officers. He was planning to
break Germany out of its landlocked
captivity and to expand as far as the
Western Pacific. Germany had been
picking up islands there and planned
to evict Spain from the Philippines.

TR knew this and, while American
eyes were on Cuba, he maneuvered
to have a commodore named Dewey,
who shared his views, take command
of our Asiatic fleet. Thus, within
three months the United States
emerged as a world power.
Behind all the factors that precipi-
tated World War I was the Kaiser's
ambition to challenge the British on
the sea. An immense fleet was build-
ing and was based at Kiel. But fate
had it that Germany became in-
volved in a land war before the fleet
was ready. Jutland was a battle no-
body won, but after that the British
Fleet "in being" kept the German
Fleet inactive. When peace came,
Britain made sure that the German
Fleet was destroyed.

VIETNAM'S VITAL POSITION

The Naval Conference of 1922 put
the U.S. at a parity with Britain, with
Japan third. As far back as 1933,
FDR, also a student of sea power,
considered Japan a potential enemy.
For the Japanese had studied Mahan,
too. American capacity to build a
two-ocean Navy and the genius of
MacArthur and Nimitz to use sea, air
and land power eliminated Japan as a
naval power. And the liquidation of
the British colonial empire and the
deterioration of its fleet left the re-
sponsibility with the U.S. to dominate
the oceans on which passes 98 per
cent of the world's overseas trade.
A great life line of the free world
runs from the Aleutians to Japan,
Formosa, the Philippines, through the
Strait of Malacca to the Indian
Ocean and the various countries on
its shores.
The importance of South Korea
to us was its position on a penin-
sula. Communist domination would
threaten Japan and everything south.
We fought to keep it safe for the
life line, not just to save a small non-
Communist nation.
South Vietnam has a similar stra-
tegic value. Its domination by Com-
munism would sever the free
connection between two oceans at
the Strait of Malacca. Thus to keep
South Vietnam's membership in the
free world is vital not only to the
nations that depend upon our protec-
tion but to our responsibilities as a
dominant sea power.

Newsweek, July 18, 1966

Page 134 of 1197

=== FILE: batch1_4_page0.txt ===
Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to maintain the column structure:

**PERSPECTIVE**

**THE GOP MAINSTREAM**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

The word "mainstream" was vaguely and inaccurately used by Governor Rockefeller and others to belabor Barry Goldwater in 1964. But at this moment, when rivals for the Republican Presidential nomination are expressing their views about Vietnam, it has a special relevance. Many years ago, Republican Presidents and Secretaries of State clearly defined American interests in the Pacific and the East Asian perimeter. Their policies not only are still valid, but they have in the past 34 years been accepted by Democratic and Republican Presidents alike. In the light of these policies it may be quite appropriate to measure the views of various Republican leaders on Vietnam.

This year we should celebrate the centennial of a great period in the career of William H. Seward and in the history of the GOP. For within twelve months in 1867 that Secretary of State made four important decisions about American interests in the Pacific. At the instance of Russia, he achieved the purchase of Alaska and the islands which reach almost to Japan and the Asian mainland. He proposed the annexation of Hawaii. He brought about the American occupation of the Midway Islands. And he negotiated a treaty with Nicaragua which looked toward the construction by the United States of an isthmian canal.

**OBJECTIVES IN PACIFIC**

The vision of Seward saw two objectives in this extension of American interests. One was the defense of the United States, which had already reached the shores of the Pacific. The other was to provide access for our trade with Asia and the islands of the Western Pacific. The latter had been a concern of American policy well before Seward. For while European powers had their colonies and ports over there, we had to depend upon diplomatic negotiations to keep open those areas for our growing commerce. In 1852 and after, we had opened Japan and had gained a foothold on adjacent islands. Our interest was not exclusive. We wanted to assure access to all trading nations.

Hawaii remained a primary objective of successors of Seward. In the last months of the Harrison Administration, Secretary of State John W. Foster negotiated annexation and introduced it in the Senate. But Cleveland withdrew the treaty. It was revived when McKinley took office and was finally confirmed in 1898.

The superficial reason for American intervention in Cuba in 1898 was humanitarian, but members of the Senate and Theodore Roosevelt, Assistant Secretary of the Navy, had in mind the assurance of our right to build an isthmian canal as a gateway to the Pacific. But TR looked beyond that and secured the appointment of Commodore Dewey as commander of our Pacific fleet. And so the treaty with Spain found us in the Philippines. The urgency of this move was to frustrate the plans of Imperial Germany to acquire the archipelago.

**TOO LATE FOR ISOLATION**

Thus the outpost of our defense became the perimeter of Asia. We craved no territory, but we needed Luzon and the harbor of Manila to serve our interests in the Far Pacific. Then John Hay, Secretary of State under McKinley and TR, achieved the Open Door in China.

Seapower, as Roosevelt saw it, was the key to our Pacific policy. Hence he envisioned a great navy. But Wilson, preoccupied by Europe, permitted Japan to begin its imperial expansion through mandated Pacific islands. By 1933 our posture in the Pacific and in the periphery of Asia became national policy. In truth no political Administration ever really ends, and none ever begins anew. And so FDR adopted the Stimson policy of checkmating Japanese expansion. FDR, who was Navy-minded and who had hereditary concerns in the China trade, accepted the Japanese challenge. By the end of World War II, we had not only vast interests in the Asiatic area but vast commitments there.

Presidents Truman and Johnson inherited this policy, and that is why we were in Korea and are now in Vietnam. It is far, far too late to ignore what happens in the non-Communist countries of the Far East. Our responsibility lies in our geographical position, our vast economic resources and an unquiet world.

Thus the ambivalence of Romney, Percy, Morton and other isolationist Republicans places them far outside the mainstream of Republican policy. It is fortunate that a majority of Republican leaders support our posture in Vietnam, although they may differ in details of strategy. We are a world power, and we must behave like one.

Newsweek, November 13, 19

=== FILE: batch1_62_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to maintain the original column structure.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the image quality and the inherent challenges of OCR on multi-column layouts.

**PERSPECTIVE**

**LBJ AND AUTO SAFETY**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

It is significant that President Johnson, in proposing to Congress the adoption of his "Traffic Safety Act of 1966," does not agree with Sen. Robert F. Kennedy's caustic arraignment of the automobile industry. Nor does he go as far as Senator Ribicoff in charging that the industry has been dragging its feet in building into its cars more provisions for the safety of the occupants. It is still clear that the major responsibility for the deaths and accidents falls first upon drivers, next upon the states and local authorities and, finally, upon the vehicles themselves.

The hearings of the Ribicoff Senate subcommittee, along with the reports of many other agencies, reveal the complexity of the subject.

The basic problem is the prevention of accidents, not what happens when an accident takes place. Here a heavy burden of responsibility rests on the state and local governments. There should be better provisions for highway design, for stricter and more efficient policing, for reporting the details of accidents, for drastic changes in driver licensing and for inspection of the cars in use.

**FEDERAL INTERVENTION**

It is state legislatures that have been dragging their feet. This is at least in part because of the considerable number of personal-injury lawyers in their membership. These people have been altogether too prone to place the blame on factors other than the drivers. While some states have done very well in safety legislation, and while some governors —like Ribicoff himself when he was governor of Connecticut—have greatly improved regulatory measures, there still is great lack of uniformity among the many jurisdictions.

This is, therefore, a situation where Federal intervention is not only legitimate but necessary. The Johnson proposals are sound and workable. The first component in his proposed program is this:

"First, Federal grants to the states for highway safety will be increased. With these funds, a comprehensive highway-safety program can be developed by each state under standards approved by the Secretary of Commerce. Included will be measures such as driver education and licensing, advanced traffic-control techniques, regular vehicle safety inspections, police and emergency medical services."

A second component is to give the Secretary of Commerce authority to determine safety criteria for all cars and to permit the manufacturers two years to adopt them. After that, these criteria could be made mandatory in all cars shipped in interstate commerce. This would include foreign-made cars as well as domestic ones.

Third, the new Secretary of Transportation would draw together in one agency all the Federal activities now in existence which bear upon the subject of highway safety. This would provide support for training drivers and for subsidies for research in many institutions now engaged in the study of accident prevention.

**NEEDED RESEARCH**

It is recognized that there is inadequate knowledge about the causes of accidents. Police reports are still merely routine affairs. There needs to be more intensive study of what happens and what is responsible. Under the President's plan, there would be a central agency to provide information for all governments and agencies concerned.

In the President's message or program there is no proposal for building a "safe" car. New York State has widely publicized the drawings of such a "model" safety car. Such a vehicle if manufactured not only would be commercially unattractive but it still would not be safe. As one Federal official has said, the only absolutely safe vehicle would be a Sherman tank. Safety can be built into the models that are being or will be manufactured and sold.

Much can be done to make sure or nearly sure that irresponsible and incompetent people be kept off the highways. Driver tests should include not just the ability to drive up a street and around the corner. They should include an examination of the physical and mental capabilities of the applicant. Moreover, the cars should be tested at frequent intervals by responsible government agencies, and those which present hazards should be ruled off the roadways.

Newsweek, March 21, 1966

=== FILE: batch1_66_page0.txt ===
Here's a text extraction of the provided magazine article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  I've tried my best to preserve the original formatting and column separation, but some minor imperfections might remain due to the image quality and column layout.


**PERSPECTIVE**

**AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY-V**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

A utomotive safety will be one of the
three or four most important sub-
jects of public concern in 1966. Sena-
tor Ribicoff's subcommittee has taken
a large volume of testimony over the
past year, and President Johnson has
a plan for Federal action. None of
the evidence so far has changed the
order of responsibility for improve-
ment: first, the driver, next, the
various government agencies which
construct, maintain and police the
roadways and, finally, the makers of
the cars.

But since the manufacturing com-
panies are so few and so easily identi-
fied, Sen. Robert Kennedy has made
irresponsible and inaccurate charges
against them. On the other hand,
members of the Administration, nota-
bly Secretary of Commerce Connor
and former Secretary of HEW Cele-
brezze, have defended the industry.

The modern car is the product of
engineering evolution. Virtually every
improvement has had something to
do with safety. The engineers must
learn by experience. For example,
fifteen years ago it was believed that
in a crash it was better to permit the
occupants of a car to be thrown out.
Then it was found that it was safer to
keep them in. And that discovery
concentrated attention on what hap-
pens within the car when a collision
takes place.

**INDUSTRY'S CONTRIBUTIONS**

For decades the companies have
maintained immense proving grounds
and indoor laboratories where every
conceivable situation that a car meets
on the highways can be controlled
and studied. When these tests have
shown the need for improvements,
such improvements have been built
into the car. An indeterminate but
vast amount of talent and money has
been spent in this testing. Questions
from Senator Kennedy about how
much has been spent on safety alone
pose an unanswerable bookkeeping
problem. For all engineering is de-
signed to protect the driver and his
car. In 1964 the industry spent half a
billion dollars on improving durability,
reliability and safety.

The companies have gone far be-
yond improving the car. They have
provided valuable models of highway
construction for state and Federal
agencies. The companies have fos-
tered driver education by providing
equipment for the schools and pro-
moting safe driving through films,
booklets and advertising for the
schools and general public.

But improvements must come year
by year, and half the cars in use are
more than six years old. Cars need
proper maintenance and care. That is
the responsibility of the owners. Un-
safe cars should be kept off the road-
ways. That is the responsibility of the
various governments.

**FEDERAL INTERESTS**

A small car cannot be as safe in a
crash as a big one. But the demand,
stimulated by the invasion of our mar-
kets by small cars from abroad, has
created serious problems of safe con-
struction for the industry. And those
foreign cars constitute a considerable
number of the cars on the highways.

Recently designs of "safe" or "fool-
proof" cars have been suggested. But
such cars-still on imaginative drawing
boards and therefore never tested as
present models have been-would be
so costly and impractical that they
would scarcely find a market.

Some Federal agencies, such as the
GSA and Post Office, have recently
specified certain safety features to be
installed in the vehicles they buy.
Most of these features are already
standard equipment on all cars. Gen-
eral Motors has announced that an
energy-absorbing steering column and
dual braking system will be standard
on all its 1967 passenger models.

The industry recognizes and wel-
comes Federal interest in providing
safer cars and its leadership in Fed-
eral, state and local highway construc-
tion. The Federal government can
also enlarge its already considerable
programs of research in automotive
safety. There is a limited but im-
portant opportunity for Federal
influence, direct or indirect, in stand-
ardizing requirements for driver
registration and periodic car inspec-
tion. Most states are lagging in these
respects. In all these efforts, the in-
dustry is ready and willing to help.
What is needed is more cooperation
and less buck-passing. In a highly
competitive market, the companies
need help rather than criticism from
Congress and the Administration.

□ Newsweek, February 21, 1966

=== FILE: batch1_72_page0.txt ===
PERSPECTIVE

BLOCKADE SAVES LIVES

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Last week I made the point that
“freedom of the seas” presup-
poses control of the seas by a domi-
nant naval power. This imposes upon
the United States, which has that
dominance, the responsibility to make
sure that the seas are used to frus-
trate the Communist threat to end all
freedoms in Southeast Asia and the
western Pacific. It means that the
U.S. Navy be used to cut off all sea
traffic in war material into North Viet-
nam. There are ample precedents for
the use of a “pacific blockade,” which
has historically been used when the
nations concerned are not formally in
a state of war.

A reading of the long, detailed and
precise account in Theodore Soren-
sen’s book “Kennedy” of the high-
level discussions which preceded the
confrontation over the Cuban missiles
in 1962 shows that there is firm prec-
edent for a pacific blockade in this
present instance. Sorensen describes
the argument which went on among
the President’s advisers over various
alternatives open to us after the mis-
siles were discovered. After consider-
able discussion, an invasion and an air
strike were rejected, and a blockade
was adopted. This was accompanied
by a Presidential appeal to Khru-
shchev. But the subsequent reaction
of the Soviet Union makes clear that
there was an understanding in the
Kremlin of the nature and capability
of dominant seapower. The blockade
was called a “quarantine” by the
President, but the reality was the ca-
pacity of the United States to bar
access at sea. The Soviet ships sub-
mitted, stopped and turned back.

HONG KONG TRAFFIC

There are certain differences now
in Southeast Asia from the 1962 con-
frontation, but the essential means of
control are the same. Superior sea-
power can choke off the means of
warfare and lessen and ultimately
stop the bloody and inconclusive na-
ture of the conflict on land and avert
wasteful and equally bloody air
strikes in North Vietnam.

It has been known for some time
that supplies for the aggression in
South Vietnam, especially the heavier
material, come by sea to North Viet-
nam. The United States appealed to
the free-world nations whose ships
were carrying goods into Haiphong,
and there has been evidence of some
restraint. A compilation of the free-
world ships engaged in the trade in
eleven months of 1965 indicates that
some countries, notably Japan, re-
sponded. But the count in 1965 shows
that a large majority of those ships
supplying the Communists were Brit-
ish, with a few Greek, Norwegian,
Cypriot and Maltese vessels. Most of
these ships under free-world flags
came from Hong Kong to Haiphong.
The British Government has been ei-
ther powerless or reluctant to control
vessels registered under its flag by
Chinese owners.

It would be a futile business
merely to bomb the shipping and
docks of that great port which is
Hanoi’s access to the sea. Haiphong
is on a river, with facilities stretched
along for miles. Access is not denied
when a few docks are bombed. For
ships can anchor in the river, and the
stuff they carry can be landed by
small craft.

PRECEDENTS

It is probable that many of the car-
goes picked up at Hong Kong are
carried in there by free-world ships.
The Communist bloc, with a large
merchant fleet, is engaged in the
North Vietnamese trade. And a great
deal of the smaller stuff is transported
in junks, ideally suited to coastal wa-
ters. As I said in my piece last week,
the Ho Chi Minh trail is long and
winding. But it begins at sea.

Pacific blockade was repeatedly
used by the British and the French in
the nineteenth century. It was also
used in 1902 and 1903 by the British
and Germans, with the full consent of
the U.S., in bringing to heel a Vene-
zuelan tyrant named Cipriano Castro.
It is still a legitimate means of arrest-
ing traffic where a state of war does
not formally exist.

It is bloodless use of superior force.
Ships carrying contraband are turned
back. Of course, the British will pro-
test, but that will mean only a long
exchange of notes, which, too, are
bloodless. For the British cannot
maintain a legal right when they es-
tablished the precedents. At the mo-
ment they are calling upon the
United States and the U.N. to aid in
a land blockade against Rhodesia.

Newsweek, January 3, 1966

=== FILE: batch1_73_page0.txt ===
Here's the text from the provided image, avoiding the advertisements and preserving column structure as much as possible.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the original layout and OCR limitations.


**FREEDOM OF THE SEAS**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

The title of this piece is one of those
nice expressions which idealistic
Americans, notably Woodrow Wilson
in World War I, used to refute the
claims of those who were interfering
with what we called our rights. But
for generations, especially since the
Battle of Trafalgar, such freedom existed
because Britain dominated the
sea lanes of the world, keeping them
free to commerce in peace but restricting
them in war. Now the United
States, with massive naval power, carries
that burden.

Yet we, the United States, are permitting
the ships of our friends in Europe
and Asia as well as the Soviet and
Red China to supply, through the
North Vietnamese port of Haiphong,
the goods of war to Hanoi and the
Viet Cong guerrillas. Our enemies are
enjoying the benefits of a license
which we have created. We are impaled
upon a legal "principle" of our
own choosing.

It would be pleasant in this Christmas
season to divert this article to a
consideration of whether all freedoms
are not exercised only because a
dominant force has decreed them.
Kooks in our academic institutions
and elsewhere among us are able to
demonstrate against the government
of the United States only because
that government is strong enough to
keep at bay the Communist power
which would deny all freedoms.

**PACIFIC BLOCKADE**

The tragic plight of our forces in
Vietnam is mainly due to the free access
to North Vietnam by sea which
we have permitted. We have been
woefully wrong in mistaking freedom
of the seas for freedom of international
shipping to supply the Communist
aggression in South Vietnam.

When the Soviet, in and before
1962, used the sea lanes (which we
had the means of controlling) to
build a mortal threat to the United
States in Cuba, there were many, including
this writer, who said we
should impose a blockade. This was
met—until the President acted, after
missiles were installed there—by the
legalistic argument that a blockade is
an act of war; that since we were not
at war with Cuba, we could not deny
access to its ports. When it was
pointed out that there was something

called a "pacific blockade," it was
said that a pacific blockade was obsolete
and that the United States had
never recognized its legality.

Accordingly, Kennedy called his
defensive measures a "quarantine"
and limited the expression "contraband"
to "aggressive weapons."

But the legalists were wrong about
a pacific blockade. It was not obsolete,
and there is grave doubt
whether we ever denied its usefulness
or validity. The concept originated
in the nineteenth century and
was repeatedly used by Britain and
France against troublesome nations to
enforce their rights or to preserve the
peace of Europe—in 1824, 1837,
1884 and 1886. It was used in 1902
and 1903, by Germany and Britain at
first, and then by Germany alone to
bring to negotiation a Venezuelan
dictator whose name, incidentally,
was Castro. Later, during the European
war, Theodore Roosevelt told a
fantastic and quite inaccurate story
about the episode. We did not refuse
to recognize the right of Germany's
blockade.

**UNUSED NAVAL POWER**

A pacific blockade is a measure enforced
by a naval power against the
use of the ports of a nation with
which it is not legally at war. It could
be used now to prevent contraband
from entering Haiphong and thus cut
off military supplies which are being
used against our forces and those of
the South Vietnamese.

Perhaps the reason why naval
power is not being used is because
we hesitate to offend our friends in
Europe and Asia and to provoke the
Soviet and the Red Chinese. But if
the United States Navy no longer has
a mission to control the sea lanes, we
have been wasting billions of dollars
on an anachronism.

There have been no precedents
for pacific blockade in recent years.
We did not use this power in the Korean
War, despite considerable military
sentiment for it. But precedents
are created to meet emergencies.

To repeat: United States naval
power makes freedom of the seas
possible. During periods of belligerence,
that freedom is subject to control.
The bloody Ho Chi Minh trail
is long and winding. It begins at sea.

Newsweek, December 27, 1965

=== FILE: batch2_19_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that perfect separation is difficult due to the image quality and layout. Some minor inaccuracies might remain.

**LBJ AND HIS CRITICS**

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

President Johnson's strong actions in Vietnam and in the Dominican Republic deserve the understanding and support of every American who cherishes his country's traditions and faces the hard facts of the present-day world. Most of the President's critics either ignore or do not know the realities of international life, or choose to risk our security and that of other free nations in the pursuit of only an illusion of peace.

There are others who have recognized the necessity of these operations, but carp at the President in matters of method and detail. I have noted three lines of criticism:

One is that in these two interventions the President has set a pattern for intervention in every spot where internal trouble arises in every area—Eurasia, Africa and Latin America. But what has been called the Johnson Doctrine is not a policy of general containment around the whole perimeter of the Communist world, nor is it a promise that we will intervene whenever in any nation Communist elements threaten to take over. It differs essentially from what was called the Dulles policy of "brinkmanship." These two interventions have a meaning deeply rooted in traditional American as well as British foreign policy. They must be considered against the background of a common purpose, which is to keep free the great highways of international communication by sea.

**PRIORITY FOR ACTION**

Another criticism, which concerns method, was especially directed at the American operation in Santo Domingo. In Vietnam we are bound by a firm commitment, as well as by our responsibility as the strongest nation in the free world. In the Dominican case, we were confronted by a clear and immediate danger. The situation could not be permitted to develop while we enjoyed the luxury of debate in the U.N. or the OAS. Those who say that before our forces landed we should have carefully determined which of various factions we preferred to support, ignore the chaos which prevailed at that time. The very fact that chaos prevailed was the most important reason why we should have acted. The sorting out of the good from the bad in such a situation becomes a task which follows rather than precedes the introduction of powerful forces by the nation best suited to provide them and which has the most vital interests at stake.

Another gripe is that there were only a "few" Communists involved in the fighting. It was irrelevant whether there were 60 or 600 Communists involved. What was and is relevant is to make sure that no government takes over on that island which will be hospitable to a Castro infusion or which will permit the expansion of Soviet strength in the Caribbean. Such a Communist takeover would be intolerable, as the President as well as his predecessor made clear on many occasions.

**FREE THE SEA LANES**

In Santo Domingo and in Vietnam the question is not so much what they are as where they are. Their strategic position brings under consideration the essential interests of the United States as well as the other nations of the free world. The fact that President Johnson has been subjected to criticism in Britain and France does not alter the fact that both these nations have an indispensable interest in keeping the waters between the Western continents free. The free world demands that there be freedom of passage through and over what an American Secretary of State in 1858 called "the gates of intercourse of the great highways of the world." And as Secretary Cass then and as President Theodore Roosevelt said nearly half a century later, when such gates are under the control of small and weak nations, the question of sovereignty must be subordinated to international necessity.

The Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico constitute such a highway, and Panama is such a gateway, just as the Mediterranean, Gibraltar and Suez have been in the past. A similar strategic situation prevails in Southeast Asia, where the Strait of Malacca and other avenues through the East Indies are vital to world intercourse. It is the larger strategy which makes the two operations so significant and which so amply justifies Mr. Johnson's actions.

Newsweek, June 7, 1965

=== FILE: batch2_22_page0.txt ===
PERSPECTIVE

NEGLECTED SEA POWER

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The decision announced by the
South Vietnamese Government to
use the United States Navy in pa-
trolling the coast of South Vietnam
is a hopeful sign that the Administra-
tion is awakening to a far more ef-
fective means of dealing with the
aggression from North Vietnam and
its support from Red China and the
Soviet than has been used up to now.
This patrol will be within a "de-
fensive sea area." In making the an-
nouncement, the South Vietnamese
Government claimed the right to in-
spect ships within 12 nautical miles
of the coast and in some instances
to act beyond those limits.
This patrol is not only very late
in coming; it is far less than the
Navy might do in choking off sup-
plies to the enemy.
It has long been evident that
bombing supply lines and fighting
jungle war is in a sense locking the
door after the horse is stolen. Action
is needed to cut off supplies before
they reach North Vietnam.
On April 12, Rep. Paul G. Rogers
of Florida listed in the Congressional
Record the names, nationality, and
owners of ships which entered the
ports of North Vietnam in the latter
part of 1964. There were 153 ships
which made 201 trips to those ports.
They were flying the flags of our
supposed friends in the free world.
Those of Japan, Great Britain, and
Greece were the most numerous.
British ships, mostly Hong Kong
based, numbered 36; Japanese, 28;
Greek, 19. There were also ships un-
der the flags of Norway, Lebanon,
Italy, Panama, and West Germany.
Some of the same ships were active
in helping Soviet Russia in its inter-
vention in Cuba in 1962.

EXERCISE OF RIGHT

Several groups have been urging
the State Department to exert pres-
sure on our allies to stop this trade,
with little or no result so far.
Our action in the Cuban crisis
points to the use of international law
to block off the thousands of tons of
material that reach North Vietnam
by sea. While the action in the
Cuban crisis was called a quarantine,
it was, in reality, the exercise of a
legal right vested in a country with
"command" of the sea to stop and
turn back vessels carrying contraband
to an inimical destination. It was,
moreover, an assertion that the cold
war brought into action certain pro-
visions of international law hitherto
restricted to hot wars.
Rear Adm. John D. Hayes (Ret.),
in a most significant article in the
Proceedings of the United States
Naval Institute in May 1964 clearly
specifies our right to stop the traffic
into North Vietnam. He points out
that apparently Americans do not
yet see "the inconsistency in training
forces for 'brush-fire' wars and
counter-insurgency while failing to
resort to age-old methods of sea law
to capture and condemn in prize
court the arms and transporting ships
which make such wars possible."

THE LAW

Under sea law, the oldest bellig-
erent right is that of contraband.
That was invoked in the Cuban crisis.
But the other major belligerent right
is that of commercial blockade. In
the Korean War and during the
Cuban crisis, Hayes says, there was a
misconception that a commercial
blockade means the sinking of neu-
tral ships. "Such ships are not sunk
by naval forces for performing non-
neutral services; they are captured
and condemned in prize courts. The
actions of naval officers are thereby
reviewed by civilian judges. Nothing
parallels this in the laws of war
on land."
If we exercised our clear rights,
our Navy might well take these
traders with North Vietnam into a
prize court and, if advisable, both
ship and cargo could be confiscated.
That would soon take the profit out
of this trade with the enemy.
Admiral Hayes concludes: "A new
and more flexible U.S. policy is called
for to meet these threats. This new
doctrine should clarify the concept of
freedom of the seas in a cold war.
It should also announce that the
United States will assume the rights
of a belligerent according to sea law
and will exercise those rights when
necessary ... we have pledged our-
selves to world order under law. But
we have failed and are failing to take
advantage of the already existing sea
law, which, backed by sea power,
can be applied today."

Newsweek, May 17, 1965

=== FILE: batch2_27_page0.txt ===
PERSPECTIVE

NIXON ON VIETNAM

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In an off-the-record speech before
a private group in New York,
Richard Nixon analyzed the Ameri-
can position in Vietnam with such
precision and force that many who
heard him persuaded him to commit
it to writing. Since the mechanical
means of recording the speech when
it was delivered had failed, he care-
fully wrote it out for what has been
until now a limited circulation. Al-
together, in the space of ten pages
his statement is the most comprehen-
sive as well as convincing argument
why the United States cannot aban-
don its responsibility in Vietnam that
has yet appeared.

Nixon said, in introducing his sub-
ject, that "the American people are
entitled to know why we are there,
what is at stake, the riches that are
involved, and the goals we seek."
His position was that President
Johnson's strong action over the past
two or three months deserves general
American support. It ignored the cav-
iling about details of our operation
that have so distorted public debate
on our policy in Southeast Asia.
These are not relevant to the cen-
tral issue.

Moreover, this statesmanlike ex-
pression should strengthen the general
belief of Republicans that Nixon is
now the foremost voice of the GOP.
By very force of character and knowl-
edge of the issues he is entitled to
leadership in these gloomy days of
opposition.

RISK INEVITABLE

Let us, in considering Nixon's use-
fulness, stop here and now any talk
about who should be the Republican
candidate in 1968. Three years lie
ahead of us before that decision will
be made, and many things will cer-
tainly happen during that time. Next
year there will be the mid-term Con-
gressional election, and history shows
that candidacies will not be crystal-
lized before that. New names and
faces will appear. The state of the
world is in flux, and great military
decisions may be forced upon us.
The state of our nation probably will
be profoundly changed economically
and politically.

The point is that now in 1965 the
Republican opposition desperately
needs leadership which Nixon is, not

only by experience but by freedom
from factional entanglements of the
right or left, qualified to provide. That
fact should be accepted not only by
the very large and sincerely dedi-
cated following of Barry Goldwater
but by the smaller GOP faction which
was forced to surrender its leadership
in 1964.

A vast national interest is at stake
in Southeast Asia and in the Pacific
Ocean, the support of which is vital
to our position in the world and to
our own national security.

Nixon's statement makes this clear.
He recognizes and disposes of the
arguments against strong measures in
Vietnam. It is not a civil war. It is not
true that the Vietnamese cannot be
saved because they are unwilling or
unable to save themselves. The risk
of spreading the war is not too great
to be faced. And negotiation now is
not the answer.

FREE ASIA'S JOB

If Vietnam is abandoned, all of
Southeast Asia will be lost to Commu-
nism. Respect for us in Asia and most
of Europe, Africa, and the Middle
East will vanish. The war by infiltra-
tion which we now see in the thickets
of Vietnam, North and South, will
move to the Philippines. For the Phil-
ippines are only a short step from
Indonesia, which would most certainly
fall completely to Communism. Japan,
for its own reasons, would inevitably
become neutral if not pro-Communist.
Retreat will not stop the Communist
advance; it will accelerate it.

This is not a parallel to the Korean
conflict. For there, geography fa-
vored intervention and support by the
Chinese and the Soviet.

Military victory, Nixon contends,
must have priority. But he most
strongly urges the initiation by the
United States of a conference of na-
tions affected by the Communist
threat, particularly Japan, South Ko-
rea, Nationalist China, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Vietnam, Australia, New
Zealand, and Thailand. The future of
Asia must and should be determined
by Asians and not by Americans or
Europeans. The time has come, he
says, for Free Asian countries to sub-
scribe to a mutual-security program
of economic and military cooperation
-"a plan and purpose of their own."

Newsweek, April 12, 1965

=== FILE: batch2_7_page0.txt ===
Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to preserve the column structure:


**PERSPECTIVE**

**THE WITHERED ARM—II**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

Above the din of jet aircraft, the news did not penetrate to the Senate Appropriations Committee that the future of our position in Southeast Asia rests on sea transport. Simultaneously with the ominous weakening of Singapore in the defense of the crucial Malacca Strait, the committee canceled a cargo ship added by the House to the building program which is a vital part of our power to meet critical events in the Far East.

War in Vietnam, like the Korean War, is a maritime operation that rests on our capability of delivering men and equipment across thousands of miles of sea. For Korea we had "a bridge of ships" which is gone today.

In an article recently prepared for publication, Adm. John D. Hayes, U.S.N. (Ret.) points up that in the Korean War, Japan was a base of operations not unlike Britain in the war against Germany. We have no such nearby base today and must depend on the more distant Okinawa, Guam and Philippines. In Japan there is virulent opposition to our Vietnamese policy and a political situation that is none too stable.

**'FINISHED WITH ENGINES'**

At Da Nang, Hayes points out, Marines landed from virtually the same ships that landed their ancestors on Okinawa in 1945 and at Inchon in 1950. The 173rd Airborne Brigade was not airlifted from Okinawa to Saigon. It was transported in aging LST's, of which only a few now remain.

When the Korean War began, we had 2,868 fairly new and efficient dry-cargo ships. Today there are only 131 under fifteen years of age. In the government reserve there remain, along with the famous old Liberties "finished with engines," a few hundred efficient World War II vessels. The Navy, calling last year for ships for an amphibious exercise, found that about 157 ships of the active merchant fleet could meet requirements of speed and cargo-lifting equipment and, of these, only 121 had an additional required feature in standard cargo rig.

In 1957 the replacement program of the subsidized lines began to take effect. The world's finest ships are among the 99 built at vast expenditure by those companies with the help of the government's construction subsidy to the shipyards. They have very great speed, which is of the essence in wartime. Where shore facilities are inadequate for unloading, they are self-sufficient. Many ships of the subsidized fleet are already in service to Vietnam. But the building program in the face of developing demands in the Far East has been slowed down by budgetary decisions.

An air transport carries limited cargo, but this is a question of millions of tons. Besides, all aircraft are hungry consumers of fuel, which is transported by sea. There is great tanker tonnage available, but we are deficient in those of "handy" size for shallow ports. Only a few have been built.

**THE LENGTHENING REACH**

Equipment must go by sea not only to an increasing number of American troops but also to the South Vietnamese Army. Food must go to the population, and bases must be built with material brought by ship. Meanwhile, cargo ships must haul the supplies for armed forces elsewhere. There is the lifeline to Puerto Rico, Hawaii and Alaska. A number of vessels are committed by law to serve essential trade routes. We ship foreign aid and must also try to continue to carry the 5 per cent of our commercial cargoes that go by U.S. ships—when they are not strikebound.

More than 99 per cent of all American overseas transport is by ship. May we look for help from our maritime friends? The price is rising, for they are busy and also carry for the Russians and Red China. Many of their ships have been thriving in the enemy supply line to the Viet Cong. While the power of Britain falters at Singapore, her shipping companies—whining "Freedom of the seas!"—lengthen the Communist reach toward the free world's British-protected jugular vein east of Suez. Japan, like Britain and West Germany, builds ships for the Communists, and demands that we return Okinawa—a staging base for the war in Vietnam. It is in that peculiar "One World" of international shipping that we must now shop around to supplement our "fourth arm of defense."

Newsweek, August 30, 1965

=== FILE: batch2_8_page0.txt ===
Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

THE WITHERED ARM—I

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

We've got the ships, we've got the men, we've got the money too." This jingle in the music halls touched off mad cheering and stomping from belligerent Britons in 1878. And the word "Jingo" has condemned preparedness ever since.

We Americans have, as President Johnson told us, a war on our hands. What have we got?

Plenty of money. The stuff can be wheeled out of the banks in truck-loads. We have a sizable Army and Marine force and large reserves of men. We have an incomparable Air Force. We have an overabundance of missile strength and a most sophisticated weapon "mix." Our Navy has nuclear energy, and its units are on station around the globe.

But when the British spoke of ships, they meant more than the Royal Navy. There were also the ships to supply their armies. Here we are deficient. This is our withered "fourth arm of defense."

The First Cavalry Division has been ordered to Vietnam. It must go by sea. Its thousands of trucks, its heavy guns, its shoes and socks and pots and pans, 400 helicopters and 15,000 men—all will be shipped by the hard-working Military Sea Transportation Service. But MSTS has only a small fleet, mainly of a specialized nature, and must rely for support on a civilian merchant marine. MSTS has an emergency role to play. After that, it must maintain the flow of supplies by sea, not only to Vietnam but to our military services all over the world. Those supplies must come in the holds and on the decks of those plodding beasts of burden, the cargo ships.

DECADES OF NEGLECT

Since World War II this country has built only a harborful of general-cargo ships. No other industrialized nation can claim so little. And so the First Cavalry Division will go to Vietnam in a traveling exhibit of the desiccated result of decades of Cabinet-level ignorance and neglect.

There is no substitute for ocean transport. During the Dominican crisis the Military Air Transport Service carried out the biggest airlift in history. But this taxed it to the utmost. Even in the spectacular Big Lift of troops to Europe in 1963, the men went by air with light equipment; the heavier stuff, such as 12,000 vehicles, went ahead by sea.

Talk about "hawks" and "doves" is simply silly unless we consider shipping requirements. We cannot sustain power unless we have the means of supply. And we cannot negotiate away our nuclear strength unless we have the transport for non-nuclear wars.

THE VANISHING FLEET

In large part today's weakness is due to varying policies which our government has followed since World War II. There was at first the nuclear hypnosis. The next war, we were told, would be over in days, even hours. Surely, no slow transport would be needed, for cities and nations would be blotted out overnight. Besides, we still had a vast merchant fleet built with great wartime efficiency and at incredible cost. Some of those ships were sold to domestic companies and some abroad. The rest were stashed away in quiet waters. All too soon, they were needed again in the Korean conflict, and 825 came out of the government reserve. In the Suez crisis, more than 200, older and wearier, came out of the mothballs to serve again.

The subsidized replacement program was neglected by defense planners bemused by the atom. Congresses festooned the industry with restrictions along with special privileges, dimly hopeful that obsolescence is another name for productivity. The unsubsidized dry-cargo services could not replace their ships.

When the concept of limited wars dawned on our planners, they made no move to halt the erosion of the "fourth arm of defense." So once more old Victory ships are moving from their anchorages.

By now, the reserve fleet, like the active merchant marine, is smaller. Hundreds of its units have been marked for scrap. Others are still seaworthy. But they are slow and they lack gear for rapid handling of cargo. MSTS has these ancient war horses to count on, along with a few modern ships and the commercial leftovers of World War II. American know-how is shackled by have-not.

Newsweek, August 23, 1965
