=== FILE: batch1_18_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided article, preserving the column structure as much as possible.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the original image quality and layout.


**PERSPECTIVE**

**THE WALLACE THREAT**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

I have not believed that it makes much
sense to speculate about who will
be the candidate of a party out of
power two years or even one year be-
fore the convention makes its choice.
What I learned earlier this month
during a visit to the states bordering
on the Gulf of Mexico has confirmed
that opinion. People in the Northeast,
the Midwest and the West should
comprehend the impact that the Pres-
idential candidacy of George C. Wal-
lace of Alabama will have upon Demo-
crats and Republicans alike in 1968.

Republican leaders in the Gulf
states are convinced that Wallace is
serious about his declared plan to run.
And they concede that if he runs he
will carry all the states, except Arizo-
na, that Goldwater carried in 1964.
More than that, his candidacy in oth-
er states from coast to coast may well
shear away the majorities that might
be expected to vote for a Johnson-
Humphrey ticket. That would be true
especially if the Republican nominee
can make the two-party contest fairly
even. Thus, a Wallace candidacy will
seriously hurt the new Republican
Party in the South, but that would be
more than compensated for by the
damage done to Johnson-Humphrey
elsewhere. For Wallace plans to place
his electors on the ballots of at least
35 states.

**PLENTY OF MONEY**

At the moment, the question in the
Wallace mind concerns the method he
will follow in launching his candidacy.
Perhaps he will form a third party.
More likely he will run as an inde-
pendent Democrat. To create the im-
pression of a draft, there are already
plans under way to secure in many
states hundreds of thousands of signa-
tures on petitions asking him to run.
Each of the petitioners will be expect-
ed to contribute a dollar for the cam-
paign. But beyond that there will be
plenty of money in larger amounts, es-
pecially from opulent members of the
various Citizens' Councils in the
South. So money does not seem to be
a problem. Indeed, one notable Re-
publican leader told me that the
draft-Wallace movement has already
gone so far as to override any linger-
ing doubts that Wallace may enter-
tain about his candidacy.

Georg Wallace does not fit the
traditional patterns of demagoguery.
He is not a Bilbo, a Heflin or an Earl
Long. He is slick, sophisticated and
personally attractive. Among the
wool-hats on the farms and in the
small towns he can "pour it on." But
in more literate areas he can be calm
and exceedingly plausible. In the past
two years he has made no racial ap-
peal. Rather, he has extolled the eco-
nomic and social progress of Alabama
under his governorship. And here he
has a believable case, for there has
been marked economic growth in the
state. He and now his wife, Lurleen,
have promoted education and wel-
fare for both races. Despite occasional
demonstrations, the status of Alabama
Negroes has very considerably im-
proved. And in the 1966 gubernatorial
election Mrs. Wallace, according to
one Alabama Republican who was a
candidate for office, received nearly
half of the Negro vote. (Wallace
claims she received only one-third.)

**GOP CHOICE A FACTOR**

Wallace says he does not oppose
Federal aid to schools and highways.
But he objects to the intrusion of the
Federal government in other state af-
fairs. On Vietnam he is a dedicated
hawk and favors the intensification of
the American war effort.

Wallace may decree a trial heat in
Louisiana this year. Later in 1967
there is the first primary, and a Wal-
lace candidate may oppose Governor
McKeithen. The runoff is early in
1968. Republicans do not plan to run
a candidate for governor.

While Republicans in the Gulf
states other than Texas are resigned
to a Wallace victory there in 1968,
they are reconciled by the expecta-
tion that, except in Alabama, they
may hold what they have gained in
Congressional seats and in county
and city offices.

One lesson for Northern and West-
ern Republican leaders is that the
Wallace vote will depend largely
upon the ideology of the candidate
chosen by the GOP. If they nominate
a Romney, Wallace will be a threat to
the Republican ticket. With Nixon
running, the Wallace impact would
mostly hurt Johnson, especially in the
states that have had racial troubles.
For Wallace loves to fish in troubled
waters.

Newsweek, April 3, 1967

=== FILE: batch1_19_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided article, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlap:


'FREE' FOR WHOM?

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Los Angeles—The controversy about
higher education in California is
not likely to be resolved for many
months. For it concerns not only the
relationship of the colleges and universities to the state government, but
taxation, administrative methods, educational priorities and, what is most
important, the responsibility and maturity of students.

It has been most unfortunate that
so many interrelated issues should
have emerged at a time when a new
governor took office and the regents
decided to dismiss president Clark
Kerr. Governor Reagan was not to
blame for that confusion. Certain reforms and reorganizations, however,
not only were overdue but were implicit in the mandate that Reagan
received from the electorate in November. The new governor had
hoped that decisions might be made
over a period of many months. But the
dismissal of the university president
was precipitated by Kerr himself and
the regents. And so a great confusion
of issues resulted.

One decision, which Reagan has
already postponed, is for an additional charge for students' tuition. But
since he and Lt. Gov. Robert Finch
have declared that it is ultimately
necessary, it may be useful to get the
facts in perspective.

REAGAN'S PROPOSAL

The California system of higher
education consists of nine universities
governed by the regents, eighteen
state colleges each with its own
board of trustees, and 87 junior colleges governed by local boards.

Reagan proposed that an additional tuition charge of $280 a year be
paid by students in the universities
and $150 by those in the state colleges. I say "additional" because the
average fees now paid amount to
about $243. The governor has made
it clear that the new charges should
be accompanied by more scholarships and by provisions for loans to
needy students.

The claim that the new fees would
be an excessive burden is absurd.
Since under current standards of eligibility the students, especially those
in the universities, come from a limited number of middle- to high-income
homes it seems unfair to impose the whole cost of their education upon
the generality of taxpayers.

The economic status of families
from which the parent-supported students (83.6 per cent at U. of C.)
come was calculated in 1965 by a
state scholarship commission, of which
the chairman was Governor Brown. It
reported that the median income of
families supporting University of California students was $12,000. For
state-college students the figure was
$10,000, and for private colleges it
was $12,300. This would indicate that
there is little difference in the source
of support of students in the state institutions and in private colleges that
charge tuition. The median income of
parents of students in the two big private universities was $15,000.

PROPORTIONATE VALUES

In the present controversy, opponents of the governor's proposal can
hardly make a case on financial
grounds. Rather, they fall back upon
the tradition of "free" education. That
reactionary argument from those
claiming to be "forward looking" is
strange indeed.

In these present years the cost of
a student's higher education has risen
to staggering heights and is far, far
more than the suggested modest tuition charge. It is only fair to ask those
who receive the benefits of high-quality education to pay a small part
of the cost.

But as I have already indicated,
the issue is not financial. Additional
tuition charges would be a means,
however small, of developing a sense
of responsibility among students and
parents alike. The parents who support students might remind themselves that the additional tuition
would be less than the price of that
color television set. And less than
what some pay merely for the insurance and upkeep on Junior's car. For
those who borrow the money for their
tuition, their notes would be a reminder that the education they are
receiving will be a major factor in the
earning power and status they will
enjoy after their graduation. Certainly
there has been evidence in the past
two or three years that there is ample
room for the development of a more
sharpened sense of responsibility
among students generally.

Newsweek, March 20, 1967

=== FILE: batch1_20_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided article, preserving the column structure as much as possible.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies may remain due to the nature of the original scanned image.

**PERSPECTIVE**

**CREATIVE FEDERALISM**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

The expression "creative federalism," which has gained currency in Congress, in state capitals and in the press, serves several purposes.

It serves as an impressive screen to cover the retreat of those who, since the Presidency of the first Roosevelt, have urged the projection of Federal authority into areas traditionally reserved to the state and local governments. In his speech at Osawatomie in 1910 TR urged that the government in Washington occupy the "twilight zone" between the states and the Federal government. That is what he called New Nationalism. It became the faith of the Progressive movement before World War I. Later it was an integral part of the policy of the New Deal. It reached its crest in the legislation promoted by the Johnson regime in the past three years.

Justification for this expansion of centralization has been the claim that the states and localities have been unfit to govern themselves and, by inference, that the American people are irresponsible and incompetent.

Like most revolutions, this one has most recently been afflicted with its own excessive zeal. A counter-revolt found an outlet in the 1966 elections when voters turned to the Republican Party, which by a wry reversal of roles has become the champion of state and local responsibility. Even some of the more perceptive Democratic leaders like Senator Mansfield, closer to the people than the President, have called on LBJ to slow up, reconsider, reorganize and reform the overloaded executive department.

**MORE PARTNERSHIP**

Further evidence of this concern comes from such an ardent welfarist as Secretary Gardner of HEW. After surveying the administrative monstrosity of which he is chief, he said that there must be more partnership with state and local governments and local private agencies. Already there are a number of Congressional subcommittees, such as those chaired by Senators Muskie and Ribicoff, studying means by which the great needs of burgeoning urban communities can help themselves.

To the end that Federal bureaucratic strings can be loosened, Republicans have seized upon the device of returning a percentage of the Federal income-tax revenues to the states where the money comes from. This looks so simple, but it is not the pat answer to the problem.

In addition to administrative limits to Federal authority, there are fiscal limits, too. Is it possible for the Federal revenues and the Federal credit to meet the commitments of the President and the 89th Congress? Commitments such as the Asiatic war, the passion to annex the moon, to maintain an army in Europe, to lift Asiatic and African nations from their poverty and to make every American secure, solvent and happy. Already the Federal government has reached the point at which more money can be raised only by deficit inflation and hidden taxes. And these are merely means of raising money mostly from the people of the same local communities that Federal grants are designed to benefit.

**THE COURAGE TO TAX**

Since the needs of urban communities contribute the foremost domestic issue of this and subsequent years, there must be a more realistic approach by their own governments measurably to meet their needs with their own resources. Their old plea that they haven't the sources of revenue is spurious. The wealth is there. And the perennial cry of cities that rural-minded legislatures limit their taxing power is no longer valid. For legislative reapportionment has given them adequate power in state capitals. The courage to tax themselves is the crux of the situation. But courage is not a virtue always evoked merely by moral considerations. It can be generated by the pressure of necessity. And there is only one source of that pressure, the Congress of the United States.

The best definition of creative federalism was written 80 years ago by Woodrow Wilson:

"Our duty is, to supply the best possible life to a federal organization, to systems within systems; to make town, city, county, state and federal governments live with a like strength and an equally assured healthfulness, keeping each unquestionably its own master and yet making all interdependent and cooperative, combining independence with mutual helpfulness."

Newsweek, March 6, 1967

=== FILE: batch1_22_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the column structure as best as possible.  Note that some formatting, such as italics and precise spacing, might not be perfectly replicated.

**UNFAIR TAX RATES**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

On the same day and in the same mail I received two items that provoked a bit of reflection about income taxes at all levels of government. One was a reminder of the ghastly humor in Mayor John V. Lindsay’s christening of New York as a “fun city.” It was a directive to file a city income-tax return.

The other item was the January issue of the American Bar Association Journal. It has an article by my friend René Wormser, who is a distinguished authority on estate law and taxation. In it Wormser charges that the arbitrary progressive rates in Federal, New York State and now New York City taxes not only violate the principle of ability to pay but impose an unfairly heavy burden on those in the middle-income brackets.

The author points out, however, that the income tax, despite its faults and fallacies, is the least unpopular of all the taxes that we pay—and that we know we are paying. With fiendish ingenuity a generation of politicians has found a way to pluck plenty of feathers with a minimum of complaint by the goose.

**SPURIOUS NOTIONS**

We have been made to believe (a) that the rich pay most of the taxes, (b) that the poor are spared the burden of supporting the government and (c) that business pays a lot out of its excessive profits.

All these popular notions are spurious. The rich bear only a minor part of the burden. The poor are gouged by hidden taxes. And business simply passes on the tax in the cost of goods and services.

The old cliché of “ability to pay” is false. It is true that the bite on the rich is considerable. But despite the populistic trend in government policies, even politicians realize that to apply “ability to pay” would drain off capital accumulations and bring about economic disaster. The tax gatherers in government, moreover, realize from experience that higher rates for the rich would accelerate methods of avoidance and result in diminishing returns. As it stands, a person with a taxable income of $200,000 is left after taxes with $89,020. The man with a taxable income of $12,000 has, after taxes, $9,740. The disparity in real incomes is apparent. But for reasons already stated, the remainder left to the rich is what supports investment. And investment is the root of economic progress.

Wormser says that if you take a table of rates and construct a curve, you will see that it is not an arc of a circle. “It is a curve that hurries on its way when dealing with the lower and middle incomes, gradually flattening out until, as it reaches the upper incomes, it almost ceases to have any curve left in it… the rates increase more rapidly, far more rapidly, in the lower and middle income ranges than in the upper.”

**NO PANACEA**

The key to progress is incentive. I know a professor who gets a $20,000 salary. He wants to earn more because of inflation and a growing family. And so he works harder by lecturing or writing or by summer-school teaching. But when he earns $2,000 more, he finds he has entered a higher bracket and has only a little more to spend. His incentive to do more is then chilled by his realization that the more he earns, the more the government takes.

If a taxpayer works for a corporation, much of his tax is deducted by his employer. And his employer simply passes on the tax he deducts in the price of the product. Inflation creates an endless spiral which grows by what it feeds upon.

Wormser offers no panacea to correct these inequities. He concludes that good sense and equity require a revision of the rate structure more fair to the middle incomes. If this reduces the revenue of government, there are ways of supplanting it by other forms of taxation. Many have been proposed and some have merit.

But when states and now cities follow the rate pattern of the Federal government, they are compounding inequity. And the middle-income people are the chief victims.

One of the alternatives would be user taxes or charges for services. That, however, takes courage which is utterly rare among politicians. Witness, for example, the screams in California about Governor Reagan’s suggestion that students pay in part for their education.

**Newsweek, February 6, 1967**

=== FILE: batch1_25_page0.txt ===
PERSPECTIVE

TAXATION AS DISCIPLINE

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It may seem deplorable for a writer
who has been gratified by the Republican renaissance in 1966 to poke
at one of the GOP's most promising issues with the blue pencil of principle.
That issue is the sharing of Federal personal-income-tax revenue with the
states and local communities without restrictions as to the use of said wind-
fall. Republican governors greet the idea with enthusiasm, and GOP congressmen, led by the highly intelligent Melvin Laird, promise to press
for it in the next session. Even Walter Heller, formerly the President's economic adviser, came out for it a couple of years ago.

The principle to which I refer is best expressed by my old friend Herbert J. Miller, who says: "Of all the purposes for which we use taxation, none is more vital than the creation of discipline needed to make government responsible as well as responsive." A definition of responsible is, "Capable of being deterred by consideration of the consequences."

THE INEXORABLE MASTER

My own respect for Miller's judgment is long standing. After years as a tax expert in Minnesota, Miller joined the Tax Foundation in 1942. He retired as its executive director in 1959 and has since served as its Federal affairs counselor. From 1947 to 1949 he was research director of the first Hoover commission. This concept of taxation as discipline is, he says, the essence of everything that he has learned after 40 years of study of fiscal policies.

What he means is that governments, as well as companies and housewives, have an inexorable master, the balance sheet. Recognizing the realities of changing times, Miller is not passionately enamored of a balanced budget. But he maintains that somehow the people who direct the affairs of government—Federal, state and local—must direct their course by measuring their expenditures in the light of what they can raise by the taxes they impose upon their constituents. If they decide that expenditures must rise, they must take into account the means of raising money from the people who are the beneficiaries of such outlays. When that means raising old rates or imposing new ones, they must have the courage to levy them and the intelligence to explain them. And, what is most important, the same constituency that receives the benefits must pay for them.

This principle of taxation is an essential part of what the Constitution calls "the blessing of liberty." Liberty implies the capacity within a viable order to create an environment favorable to those who possess it. That is what Edmund Burke said to Parliament when he demanded that colonies participate in the government under which they were taxed.

The argument for sharing the Federal personal-income-tax receipts with the states and localities is based upon three assumptions, each of which is subject to serious doubt:

1. That the states and the localities dependent upon them find the burden of services greater than their resources. Two weeks ago I presented the findings of a Tax Foundation study which shows that the taxable resources of the states, together with the Federal government's help already assured, will be adequate in the years up to 1975.

2. That the Federal personal income tax is a fairer and a more productive tax than any that might be imposed by the states and the local governments.

3. That the money to be returned to the states is the same money exacted from the citizens thereof. No formula yet devised can be equitable, and in the political context of Congress no such formula would be possible. Moreover, if the Federal government is running a deficit, the money given to the states would in fact not come from them. It would be made in Washington, through the Federal Reserve System, by fiat.

But the major objection to tax sharing is that the money given to the states is not raised in the place where it is spent. It is collected by a distant government. It imposes no discipline upon the recipient governments. It will be a windfall and will be used, as all windfalls are used, without responsibility and probably wastefully.

Perhaps these matters of principle will be ignored by Congress. But it may be well to remind our lawmakers that such principles exist.

Newsweek, January 2, 1967

=== FILE: batch1_28_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

**PERSPECTIVE**

**STATE SELF-SUPPORT**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

The 25 present and prospective Republican governors who will meet on Dec. 9-10 in Colorado Springs might well agree upon two propositions: it is too early to bicker and divide about who will be the GOP Presidential candidate in 1968. But it is not too early to plan how the candidate can be elected. The answer to the question raised is what the governors and their legislators can do to provide good government in their states and local subdivisions.

Having agreed on these points, the governors should go home and work on their state budgets and also consider carefully the fiscal prospects in their state and local governments in the years ahead. A cardinal principle of most Republican leaders, both "liberal" and "conservative," has been a greater participation in and responsibility for meeting needs at the state and local level. Thus Republicans would check the trend toward control by Washington. This, they contend, is keeping faith with the traditional balance between the states and the Federal government decreed by the U.S. Constitution.

The excuse for Federal invasion of the states preached by the Democratic administrations since FDR has been that the states and local communities are unwilling or unable to meet their own responsibilities.

**FACTS AND PROJECTIONS**

The Republican governors might well take a hard look at the facts and re-evaluate that Democratic contention. For there is good evidence now which denies that Democratic claim. The Tax Foundation has just issued the results of a comprehensive, non-partisan study, "Fiscal Outlook for State and Local Government to 1975." This holds, with abundant evidence, that the widely held doubts about the future of the states are not correct. In recent years, the report says, it has been almost commonplace "to assume that all state and local governments are in financial straits." This may be true for some, but not for the majority.

The big rise in state and local expenditures was in the decade 1955-1965. In the next decade the rise in expenditures will be at a slower rate, especially in outlays for education, highways and health and hospitals. The figures that follow are based upon an assumption of a growth rate of 4 per cent in the gross national product and an annual increase of 1.6 per cent in prices. They do not take account of any decline in the quality of services.

In the years 1955-1965 state and local expenditures averaged annually at $75 billion. In 1975 they will be $142 billion, an increase of 89 per cent. But revenues from all sources, including Federal help under present programs, will rise from $74.3 billion to $146.9 billion, an increase of 98 per cent.

**MORE REVENUE, SAME RATES**

In the states and local subdivisions in 1975 there will be a 75 per cent rise of income from existing taxes from the 1965 level.

The major declines in rates of increase will be from 144 per cent in 1955-1965 to 89 per cent in 1965-1975 in education, from 89 per cent to 36 per cent in highways and from 122 per cent to 97 per cent in health and hospitals.

Welfare will rise, but that will not affect the over-all total.

A reason for the relative declines will be a slowing in the rate of population growth, especially in the old and young categories. The number of old-age assistance recipients will decline by 375,000 by 1975 and public-school enrollments will level off by 1970.

Meanwhile, the aggregate tax sources will increase and more revenue can be raised from present rates. Under present Federal programs the payments to the states will rise from $11 billion in 1955 to $30 billion in 1975. These payments are fore-ordained under present programs largely enacted since President Johnson took office. They are the law of the land.

Thus, by prudent management and without new and expensive programs, the 25 governors and their legislatures can provide good and efficient government without important state-local tax increases.

The proposal for a return to the states of a percentage of Federal tax revenues will be an issue in the new Congress. But no one can predict whether it will be adopted.

**Newsweek, December 12, 1966**

=== FILE: batch1_29_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided article, separating the columns to avoid overlapping text:


**PERSPECTIVE**

**THOSE 25 GOP GOVERNORS**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

This piece and the one which will
follow next week are designed
to establish a number of propositions
which bear upon the conference of
25 Republican governors and governors-elect at Colorado Springs on
Dec. 9-10.

1. The aggregate influence of the
states represented by those governors may well be sufficiently large to
win the Presidency for a Republican
candidate in 1968.

2. There is in sight of attainment a
genuine two-party system, fairly
evenly balanced, which is good for
the country and for the people of
the country.

3. There is a real issue upon which
the Republican Party can depend
which conforms with the constitutional framework of the republic.

4. The recent election should be
interpreted as terminating the divisive forces which shattered the GOP
in 1964. For there were elected in
November a good representation of
all those ideological groups in the
party which confused the electorate
in that unhappy year and gave an excessive and unwholesome monopoly
of power to the President, his Congressional majority and his party.

5. The peril which those 25 governors must avoid and resist is the effort of Democratic leaders and the traditional practices of the daily press
and television and radio networks to
create the image of a divided and internally irreconcilable GOP.

The last of those propositions is illustrated by three successive headlines in The New York Times. On
Nov. 20: ROCKEFELLER CALLS GOP
GOVERNORS PARTY'S '68 HOPE. And
in the story that followed, the New
York governor stated that he favored
a "consensus" of Republicans. The
next day the headline was ROMNEY
ATTACKS ROCKEFELLER PLAN ON 1968
STRATEGY. That day Rockefeller and
Romney met, and the next Times
headline said ROMNEY ENDORSES GOP
CONSENSUS AS A PRINCIPLE. The two
governors thus pricked that bubble
of dissent. The difference was purely
semantic and irrelevant.

But the effort to divide will not
end with this agreement. The practice of some elements of the press
and of the networks can be summarized as "Let's you and him have a
fight and I'll hold the microphone."
In my Yankee grandmother's phrase,
it might be called "puddin' stick"
reporting.

Rockefeller in his interview reported on Nov. 20 said that while he
did not care for the LBJ word "consensus" he used it to describe a state
of harmony among Republicans as
they looked toward 1968. He used
the word "pragmatic" to describe
this. And he added that speculation
now about 1968 candidates would be
"premature."

In short, Republicans during the
next nineteen months should not be
preoccupied with who will be the
1968 nominee, but with how a Republican nominee can be elected.

**NO IDEOLOGICAL TREND**

After six years in the wilderness of
defeat and frustration, the Republican opportunity is very bright indeed.
The states in which Republicans will
have governors next year encompass
more than 100 million people. The
electoral votes of their states will be
more than 300, or about 50 more than
is necessary to elect a President. If
we assume that half of the ten states
with holdover Democratic governors
would have been carried by Republicans, the GOP electoral vote would
be in excess of 100 more than necessary to elect a President. In Illinois,
the largest of those states, Republicans won control of both houses of
the legislature.

The results of this 1966 election
show neither a so-called "liberal" nor
"conservative" trend. The range runs
from Rockefeller and Chafee in the
East to Reagan and Williams of Arizona in the West, with Percy, Rhodes
and Romney in between.

Republican prospects can be darkened by two circumstances: first, the
reopening of the old 1964 wounds;
second, the failure of the 25 GOP
governors, in cooperation with the
GOP in Congress, to provide good
government at all levels.

By good government I mean stemming the tide of Federal invasion of
the states and the great urban areas
by sound methods in the states for
meeting the needs of their people.
This is a question of money and fiscal
policy which I shall consider in another article.

Newsweek, December 5, 1966

=== FILE: batch1_30_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

PERSPECTIVE

SEMANTIC TYRANNY

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Senator Javits, seldom able to restrain his oracular zeal, leaped into the business of 1968 two days after the 1966 election. He rejected the efforts of so many loyal Republicans to unify their party. He said: "I think the experience of 1964 shows you've got to fight it out."

The experience of 1964 is precisely the reason why the Republican blood-letting of that year should not be repeated. For in that year the unnecessarily bitter things that Republicans said about each other and the ideological hobgoblins that were exorcised provided the ready-made weapons that made LBJ's task so easy in the campaign that followed the San Francisco convention.

There were hysterical incitements to fear, meaningless semantic labels, quotations out of context and personal vituperation. And the voice of reason was stilled.

Two years' reflection should show that the differences among Republicans that year might have been resolved within the broad tolerance which should characterize a national political party. But we lived then, and some seem to prefer to live now, under a tyranny of semantics.

WORDS WITHOUT DEFINITION

Words like "extremist," "moderate," "right wing" and "left wing" are like ink splattered on the houses of people we don't like. They are words uttered without meaning or definition. Even now, in a post-election column by a well-known commentator the words "moderate" and "moderate-Republican" appear six times. Presumably he means that everyone with whom he disagrees is immoderate or extreme. The cream of the corny jest is that he and many of the unctuous pundits of the airwaves are Democrats playing the old game of tossing apples of discord into the party they hope to defeat or destroy.

A better case can be made for the labels "conservative" and "liberal," even though the latter term has been wrenched from its traditional meaning. But these labels have no relevance in defining the alternatives presented in a two-party system. Both parties should allow for internal shades of difference about what government should do or not do.

I have given a good many years of thought to the subject of party alternatives. In 1962 I wrote a small book on the subject. And I see no good reason why all the notable Republican leaders cannot be fitted within the four corners of a common party loyalty. There are, among many, Dirksen, Ford, Goldwater, Nixon, Percy, Scranton, Reagan, Rhodes, Rockefeller and Romney-a range of rich talent.

All these men would restrain the Federal invasion of the states. All would demand Federal fiscal responsibility. All deplore the vast growth of Federal bureaucracy. And all would call for the preservation of individual initiative and the growth of what is called the private sector. All favor free enterprise. Finally, all would demand better administration of the many programs enacted under the Johnson regime.

THE PRICE WE PAY

There may be differences of method and degree among the views of the leaders named above. But there is no reason why these cannot be discussed seriously and peacefully within the GOP.

Two issues which cut across party lines have no real ideological identity -civil rights at home and resistance to Communist aggression abroad. But here also we have differences in method and timing. Republicans should not and need not, as Javits says, "fight" about these.

A national party spreads through 50 states. These states have varying interests, needs and constituencies. What concerns New York, Ohio, Illinois and California may not concern Nebraska, Oregon or Texas. But if we are to have a two-party system --and everyone but a few splinter-minded people professes his allegiance to that institution--both national parties must allow differences in degree and method. That is the price we must pay for our party system, which is all that preserves us from the multiparty chaos that inflicts such countries as West Germany at the moment. We should pay that price in tolerance, in rational discussion, in fair compromise and in a disposition to abide by intraparty majority decisions.

Newsweek, November 28, 1966

=== FILE: batch1_36_page0.txt ===
Here's the text from the provided image, separated into columns to avoid overlap:

**Column 1 (Perspective):**

FOR A BETTER CONGRESS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

A t about this time in October, most
conscientious voters form the de-
cisions which they record on polling
day in November. Very few elections
are decided in the last ten days.
And for that reason it is a good time
to sift out from the innumerable
smaller issues this year the one pre-
dominant factor which should be
weighed by voters.

This country needs a stronger, more
disciplined and more discriminating
Congress. We have not had such a
Congress in the past two years. The
result has been an accumulation of
legislation, the implementation of
which will plague the courts and the
executive departments for many
years. Bills have been passed which
few of those who voted for them
really understood. And few considered the long-term consequences of
the impact upon the Executive and
the country.

RAYBURN'S VIEW

The reason for this is that the campaign of 1964 was fought in a dense
fog of irrelevancies. Hollow expressions were bandied about—"liberal,"
"conservative," "moderate," "extremism"—expressions which no one
clearly understood, simply because
they were designed to obscure rather
than to reveal meaning. It was a campaign in which fright, prejudice and
irrational emotion predominated. The
product of the electoral sweep that
followed was a Congressional majority ideally suited to be the supine
creature of a President who was all
too willing to exploit its weakness. A
legislative vacuum was created into
which there moved the President,
fortified by long experience, ambition and the skillful use of patronage,
pressure and threat of punishment.

The Democratic majority was so
large that the leadership could not
exercise the restraint and discipline
so essential to orderly procedure.

In the election of 1942 a Democratic majority was reduced from 268
to 218—a margin of only ten. Before
that election the late Sam Rayburn
told me that as Speaker he would be
quite happy with the result. He said
that the bigger a majority he had to
manage, the more difficult it was to
impose upon it rational and intelligent control. Assured of the success


**Column 2 (Perspective continued):**

of any measure proposed by the President, members would wander about,
organize in groups and cliques, absent themselves from roll calls and
generally dissolve into an unruly
mob. When the party balance was
narrow, he said, good sense and
compromise could prevail. And attention to the business of legislation
would be sharper and more effective.
A green freshman member is always
a liability to his party's leadership.

The big sweep in 1964 not only
added half a hundred such green and
inexperienced members to the majority in the House, but it swept away
an equal number of experienced Republicans, most of them by a small
margin of votes. And any old hand in
the House will tell you that in considering the merits of legislation there is
a great deal of interdependence and
cooperation between the parties in
the committees. The loss was not only
to the Republican Party but to the
Democratic leadership as well.

The essence of a constitutional system is balance—between the two major
parties, between the legislative
and executive branches and between
Federal, on the one hand, and state
and local responsibility on the other.

THE PREDOMINANT ISSUE

Sound legislation is not created by
votes on the floor. It is created by
careful and intelligent and judicious
action in the vital committees. There
the voice of the minority can be
heard and the wisdom of experienced members can be enjoyed. A
better legislative product is thus
created and the national interest is
served.

Valuable and experienced Democrats have died or retired, or have
been defeated in the primaries. Democratic voters should exercise wise
judgment by replacing them either
with good Democrats or Republicans.
And so it is to be hoped that, despite the divisive influences of the racial conflict and of the Vietnamese
war, intelligent voters will attempt to
right the imbalance so unfortunately
created by the irrational and emotional climate of 1964. Let us forget
the slogans of that unhappy year and
vote for a better balance, a more experienced and a more representative
Congress in 1966.

Newsweek, October 17, 1966

Page 107 of 1197

=== FILE: batch1_48_page0.txt ===
Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, attempting to maintain the original column structure:

**PERSPECTIVE**

**AFTER THE PRIMARY**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

Claremont, Calif.—In some respects
the outcome of the California pri-
mary on June 7 has portents for the
West, Midwest and South. But, as al-
ways, some things that happen in
California are peculiar to that state.
The result has been hailed as a
promise of important Republican
gains in November over the nation.
An analysis offers some justification
for that conclusion. The registration in
California has generally been 2 to 1
Democratic in the past. Now it is
about 3 to 2. The Republican candi-
dates for governor received about 68
per cent of the Republican potential.
The Democrats had 57 per cent of
their registration.

On both sides there was a lively
contest for the nomination for gover-
nor. Ronald Reagan defeated his op-
ponent George Christopher by about
2 to 1. But Gov. Edmund G. Brown
defeated Samuel Yorty, mayor of Los
Angeles, by a smaller margin. He
had 51.7 per cent of the vote for gov-
ernor. Yorty had 38.4 per cent. Yorty
was bitterly critical of Brown and
still seems to be irreconcilable. Even
beyond that, Brown seems to be in
deep trouble in his party. His third-
term candidacy is a handicap. Only
Earl Warren in recent years has had
three terms. There is also the ero-
sion attending eight years in office.
Brown's appeals may be tiresome
repetitions of the old refrains.

**REAGAN'S ADVANTAGES**

The advantages of Reagan, be-
yond the statistics, are clear. He is a
fresh new face in politics. His train-
ing has made him a master in public
address, especially on television. No
one seems really to dislike him. He
made no serious blunders. And he
did not attack Christopher, who has
promised to support him.

What is most important is that the
statewide Republican candidates will
run as a team. One for all and all for
one. This is in sharp contrast to the
Warren years when each candidate
shifted for himself. And Warren al-
ways seemed to be determined to
disassociate himself from the Repub-
lican Party.

This unity of the candidates means
a great deal because it portends the
development of a real two-party sys-
tem after many years of suffering

from the nonpartisan "reforms" of 50
years ago. Moreover, these state-
wide Republican candidates are an
attractive lot, mostly young and
highly personable.

The second man on the Republican
ticket is Robert H. Finch, who at a
little over 40 is a veteran political ex-
pert. He has managed many cam-
paigns, the most recent one that of
George Murphy, who won a Senate
seat in 1964 despite an LBJ sweep.
Finch is an intelligent student of po-
litical issues, and his forward-looking
ideas will be very important in the
campaign. If elected lieutenant gov-
ernor, he will be a significant figure
in the state.

**DANGERS AHEAD**

I find in the state a quieting down
of the fierce ideological strife which
prevailed in 1964. The shrinkage of
the ultra-right is notable. That issue
was always blown up into unrealistic
proportions here as elsewhere. The
what of social reform is no longer so
important as the how it is to be ad-
ministered. Social changes are estab-
lished. Now we must see how they
can be operated without danger to
Federal and state credit.

On racial matters the two parties
are on the same ground. On the con-
troversial Vietnam issue the doves
generally did badly in the Congres-
sional primaries.

There are dangers ahead for Rea-
gan which he must face without
equivocation. One is the talk, already
abroad in the East, of Reagan as a
Presidential possibility in 1968 if
elected this year. He should kill it
with a Shermanesque statement. For
Brown made murderous use of that
kind of speculation against Knowland
in 1958 and Nixon in 1962—saying on
both occasions that they were going
to use Sacramento as a stopover on
the way to Washington. That old
Brown record will be played again
unless Reagan makes an unmistakable
denial.

Also, Reagan must avoid the rush of
ultra-conservatives to hitch themselves
to a rising star. He must stress unity
among all Republicans. And he must
define the issues in the perspective of
the years ahead and, so far as pos-
sible, avoid national issues. California
has enough problems of its own.

Newsweek, June 27, 1966

=== FILE: batch1_52_page0.txt ===
PERSPECTIVE

ANOTHER CO-OP CRUTCH

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Thirty years ago Congress established the Rural Electrification
Administration. It was designed to provide electric service to farmers remote
from the lines of private companies. Co-ops pay only 2 per cent for the
money, although as time has passed the Treasury has had to pay much
more in its borrowings.

Nourished by this subsidy, electric co-ops have grown in number, size and
affluence. There are nearly 1,000 of them. Their original purpose has long
since been achieved, for electricity is now within reach of substantially every
farm owner.

Hence, the co-ops have thrust their operations into urban and suburban areas
and into the industrial market. Some of their operations go well beyond
selling electricity.

But they have no intention of giving up the 2 per cent subsidy crutch, and
every year the REA demands more lending money from Congress. For fiscal
1967 it will be approximately $365 million.

Because of growing criticism of this subsidy, the co-ops' lobbying agency, the
National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, has planned for an ingenious
new crutch to supplement the REA and ultimately to get free from Congress
entirely.

One version of this scheme is in a bill introduced in the House by Congressman
Poage. A somewhat different one is the Administration's plan, emanating from
the Department of Agriculture (DA) and introduced by Chairman Cooley of the
Committee on Agriculture. The following is the Administration plan.

A NEW FEDERAL BANK

There would be created in the Treasury a "Rural Electrification Account," and
in the DA a "Federal Bank for Rural Electric Systems." Into the account would
be deposited all money received in repayment of loans to co-ops and interest, all
notes, bonds and property held by the REA, all appropriations for electrification
loans.

The bank would have a board of seven. Four would be officers of the DA
appointed by the Secretary. The other three board members would eventually be
elected by borrowers holding Class B stock. The administrator of the REA would
also be administrator of the bank.

Every year for fifteen years the bank would receive $50 million from the
account and would pay for this with its Class A stock. Thus, it would receive
$750 million by 1981. Every borrower from the bank would have to buy Class B
voting stock in an amount equal to 5 per cent of its loan. Also, Class C and D
stock could be bought for investment. The general idea is that sometime, by and
by, the Class A stock would be bought back and eliminated, and the holders of
the other stock would own the bank and thus get the government out—except for
the perennial loans by the REA. Nobody knows when this would happen.

DESIGN FOR MONOPOLY

The bank would be exempt from supervision by all state authorities, and
presumably from supervision by the Comptroller of the Currency. It would pay no
Federal income tax, and the co-ops, as before, would have similar exemptions.

The REA would still operate. As long as Congress should approve, it would
lend at 2 per cent. Presumably, the bank would lend at various rates of interest on
a 50-year basis.

The big source of capital would be debentures to be sold in amounts ten times
the capital of the bank. Thus, by 1981 the bank would have capital assets of
nearly $10 billion. The debentures would not specifically be guaranteed by the
Federal government, but if the bank at any time should be unable to pay interest
or principal, it could borrow for such purposes from the Treasury. These
debentures would thus be made attractive for private investors. When and if the
co-ops gain control, this huge financial institution would be completely
independent of the government but retain all the privileges originally accorded it as
a government agency.

This surpasses any previous example of government competition with an
investor-owned business. Ultimately the bank and the co-ops could absorb or
destroy all competition. This, then, is the reality of the Johnson Administration's
attitude toward the free-enterprise system.

Newsweek, May 30, 1966

=== FILE: batch1_55_page0.txt ===
PERSPECTIVE

THE GOP IN THE SOUTH

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

T
he observations and conclusions
that follow are based upon what
I learned during a visit in April to
South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama
and Mississippi. It was my first
roundup of Southern politics since
the spring of 1964. It will be noted
that these states are in what has
been called the Deep South. In all
of them the Democratic monopoly
has been broken since 1960 and a
new Republican Party has been
growing. This change is the most im-
portant American political event since
the coming of the New Deal 33 years
ago. Its impact upon party calcula-
tions is bound to be revolutionary.
But unfortunately, Northeastern Re-
publicans have distorted what has
been happening by inordinate em-
phasis upon the race issue. What is
most significant are the deep cur-
rents of economic and population
changes which have predominated.
While the South remained Demo-
cratic for the many years after the
Reconstruction, it is an error to speak
of it as a "one party" area. It is more
nearly correct to say that no real
parties existed in those states. Politics
was dominated by factions and per-
sonal followings. For the most part,
political activity centered in the ac-
tions and ambitions of notable politi-
cal leaders who in statewide elections
captured governorships and U.S. sen-
atorships. Some of these were men
whose demagoguery verged upon
clownishness, with racism predomi-
nant. Others were authentic states-
men whose security of tenure and
personal capacities played a large
part in shaping national policy in
Washington.

URBAN REPUBLICANISM

Both types have largely faded out,
and in the bitter struggle within the
national Democratic Party the Demo-
cratic hold upon the electorate has
measurably weakened. It is this
weakness that the new Republican
parties have successfully exploited in
the past four or five years.
Economic factors, with the growth
of big cities and education, have ac-
celerated this change. The economic
growth of the four states has been
phenomenal. Industry has been mov-
ing South, bringing with it a great
many managers and technicians from
the North and East. Cattle raising
and the manufacture of forest prod-
ucts have found the climate, the
labor force and the laws more favor-
able to development. Cotton has de-
clined in relative importance. Cities
like Columbia, Atlanta, Birmingham,
Mobile and Jackson have not only
grown in wealth and population but
have taken on the interests and ap-
pearance of the best of our urban
centers in the Midwest and North-
east. And where this urbanization has
been most marked, young people
who have been organizing a new
Republican Party have met with the
most success.

THE NEGRO POTENTIAL

While Sen. Everett Dirksen and
other Northern Republicans have de-
plored enforced reapportionment,
this change in representation has
helped Republican opportunities to
win success at the polls. It has made
possible greater representation in
state legislatures and in Congress in
the very areas where Republicanism
has had its greatest growth.
The Goldwater candidacy before
the nomination and at the election
provided a big lift to the Republicans
in the four states. It enabled Repub-
licans to extend their organizations
and induce attractive candidates to
run for Congress and for state leg-
islative seats Goldwater's sweep of
those states was the stimulant
needed. Eight Congressional candi-
dates were elected in 1964, many
state legislative seats were captured
and some local offices were won.
The Negro vote, nominally greatly
increased by registrations under Fed-
eral law, is an indeterminate factor in
1966 political calculations. As Rich-
ard Nixon said in an address in Loui-
siana, it is the Republican policy to
"leave the issues of the past to the
Democrats." Despite a heavy regis-
tration, it is not likely that the Ne-
gro vote will hold the balance of
power in state elections or possibly
in Congressional contests. The Negro
population is mainly concentrated in
specific areas. It is hardly large
enough to change results where Re-
publicans have made the greatest
gains since 1960. And no one knows
how many of the newly registered
Negroes will vote in November.

Newsweek, May 9, 1966

=== FILE: batch1_63_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure as much as possible. Note that perfectly separating the columns in a scanned image is challenging, and minor overlaps or inconsistencies might remain.

**PRAGMATIC REPUBLICAN**

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Los Angeles—Most political talk here
centers upon 1966 candidates for gov-
ernor. Two Republicans, Ronald Rea-
gan and George Christopher, will run
for the nomination in the June pri-
mary. Gov. Edmund G. Brown will
try to succeed himself. And Samuel
W. Yorty, Mayor of Los Angeles,
threatens to wrest the Democratic
nomination from Brown. Visiting com-
mentators fill their dispatches with
their names.

However, I find the most interest-
ing candidate to be Robert H. Finch,
who declared himself to be a Repub-
lican candidate for lieutenant gover-
nor some months ago. At the moment
no substantial Republican opposition
is in sight.

There is something fresh, clear and
pragmatic about Finch's appeal. His
concept of the meaningful political
problems of California is a lesson in
realistic politics.

Finch, correctly it seems to me,
conceives that the people of this
country since the confusion of 1964
have grown sick and tired of old ideo-
logical expressions such as "liberal,"
"conservative," "left" and "right,"
"moderate," "radical" and "extreme"
this or that. The glue on the old party
labels doesn't stick any more.

**FACTS OUTRUN THEORIES**

The rapidly changing facts of Amer-
ican life mock old political philoso-
phies. There is an old German saying
that facts are quicker than thoughts.
Before a political credo is thought
out and written, the world on which
it is based has passed away.

Finch makes the relevant point that
the United States is at the end of one
era and entering another. Within a
relatively few years three of every
four Americans will live and work in
a few great megalopolitan areas. In
California there is in the making a
vast urban and semiurban complex
stretching from the Golden Gate to
San Diego. There will be larger and
larger cities in this area, loosely
linked together by a chain of free-
ways and other means of transporta-
tion and communication. It will be so
throughout the nation—from Boston
to Washington, from Pittsburgh to
Milwaukee and elsewhere.

The Federal government is some-
what but not clearly aware of this
change. It created the Health, Edu-
cation and Welfare Department and
the new Department of Housing and
Urban Development. Next will come
a Department of Transportation. But
despite these pretensions and billions
of expenditures, the Federal estab-
lishment cannot alone meet the prob-
lems of these population congestions.
The limits of Federal spending are al-
ready in sight. Besides, the problems
of such areas differ one from another.
No bureaucracy can plan for all. Self-
help must come from the lower levels
of government and, what is most im-
portant, from what is called the "pri-
vate sector."

**FINCH'S LEADERSHIP**

This is not to say along with some
reactionaries that we must repeal the
Federal trend of the past 30 years.
That was an era when Washington
helped on the local levels. Now, look-
ing ahead, the local levels must help
the Federal establishment to carry
the burden. The latent resources in
wealth and talent are there at those
levels. They must be mobilized.

The political party that grasps these
practical facts can move forward as-
sured of the confidence of a public
which is well aware of these changes.

That is what Finch is telling the
people of California. He has spent
twenty of his 40 years in thinking and
acting in the political arena. When I
first knew him fifteen years ago, he
was the director of the Los Angeles
Republican Associates. Later, while
practicing law he ran unsuccessfully
for Congress. Late in the 1950s he
was Vice President Nixon's adminis-
trative assistant and in 1960 he
shared with Len Hall the management
of Nixon's Presidential campaign. His
genius for political organization was
shown in 1964 when he successfully
managed George Murphy's campaign
for the U.S. Senate.

The lieutenant governorship in Cal-
ifornia attracted him because that of-
fice is far more important there than
it is elsewhere. The lieutenant gov-
ernor is ex officio member of many
important state agencies. With inde-
pendence from the governor, Finch's
fresh and enlightened views could be
injected deeply into state policies.
These progressive ideas might well be
noted by GOP leaders everywhere.

Newsweek, March 14, 1966

=== FILE: batch1_65_page0.txt ===
PERSPECTIVE
GUNS AND BUTTER PLUS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Inflation is no longer a threat. It is
a fact. The most practical way to
lessen its impact is to cut Federal
spending. But our President says we
must have guns and butter too.
Even if we concede that Congress
should continue military and welfare
outlays at the present rate, however,
there is plenty of fat in LBJ's 1967
budget of demands. And a lot of it is
in that vast pork-barrel authorization
in the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1965
—a miscellany of handouts for local
interests.
A good example is the Dickey-
Lincoln hydroelectric dams proposed
to be built on the St. John River, far
up in northern Maine.
This project was once included in
the famous Passamaquoddy dream
child of FDR which over the years
since 1935 has had several deaths
and resurrections. In 1935 Congress
provided $7 million for preliminary
plans. In 1936 Senator Vandenberg
induced the Senate to deny funds for
construction. In 1941 the Federal
Power Commission said the project
could not economically compete with
other sources of electric power. In
1948 the governments of the United
States and Canada asked the Interna-
tional Joint Commission to investigate
the plan. In 1956 the IJC reported
that "Quoddy" was not feasible.

THE DICKEY-LINCOLN SCHEME
In 1961 Interior Secretary Udall,
flushed with the power of his new
job, induced President Kennedy to
restudy the scheme, and in 1963 he
recommended it to the President. In
1965 he decided that harnessing the
tides of the Bay of Fundy was not
feasible, but at his suggestion Presi-
dent Johnson permitted the Dickey-
Lincoln project to be included in the
Rivers and Harbors bill with $800,000
to make engineering studies.
The idea is to build a large dam at
Dickey and a smaller, "reregulatory"
one at Lincoln School. The St. John
River rises in northwestern Maine,
flows north and for a short distance
forms the international boundary.
Then it turns into New Brunswick and
flows on to the sea. The bureaucrats'
estimate of cost is $321 million, which
would include 421 miles of transmis-
sion lines to Bangor, Augusta, Port-
land and Boston.

The annual operating cost esti-
mated by Jackson & Moreland, a con-
sulting firm, would be $19 million
rather than the Interior Department's
guess of $11 million. There would be
a deficit of $4,618,000 to be paid by
the Federal government.
Since New England needs plenty
of electric power, nineteen private
companies have joined in a plan
which will cost $1.5 billion to increase
their plant capacity during the next
seven years. This group would add
6,250,000 kilowatts to its production
from four nuclear, five steam and one
hydro plant and join all these by
transmission lines. Dickey-Lincoln's
capacity would be less than 1 per
cent to add to the total New England
capacity.

HYDRO WHITE ELEPHANT
These companies would provide
large sources of tax revenues for the
state, local and Federal governments.
That is the plus side, while the
Dickey-Lincoln plan would be a fur-
ther drain on Federal funds.
Moreover, the production cost per
kilowatt in such a Federal project
would be much higher than the costs
in the nuclear, steam and hydro
plants of the private companies. It is
quite probable that even before, or at
any rate shortly after Dickey-Lincoln
is built and operating, the lower costs
of nuclear and steam production
would make such a Federal project
with its transmission lines so costly as
to be wholly impracticable.
Thus, the Federal government
would have an expensive and unnec-
essary white elephant on its hands.
This project, with many others in the
United States, would stand as a grim
monument to the follies of this and
earlier generations.
The influences behind the building
of Dickey-Lincoln are the demand of
Maine for Federal spending the pub-
lic-power zealots in and out of the
Federal government, and the bu-
reaucracy of the Interior Department
and Army Corps of Engineers, always
intent on having bigger and more ex-
pensive projects to construct.
Here and in many other parts of the
Johnson budget are projects which
should be eliminated. If there is to be
economy, such proposals are where
Congress should apply the ax.

Newsweek, February 28, 1966

=== FILE: batch1_71_page0.txt ===
Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to maintain the column structure:


**PERSPECTIVE**

**U.S. PATENT POLICY**

**BY RAYMOND MOLEY**

A long, bitter and inconclusive issue over the rights to inventions made in research and development financed by the Federal government will come to a head in the 1966 session of Congress. For Sen. Russell Long has been laboring for years to have the government retain such rights. In eleven instances he has been able to attach amendments to specific bills asserting the government's rights. Last year he introduced a comprehensive bill which he will press upon the Senate this year. This bill would give the government exclusive rights to all such inventions at time of contract, with the exception that the government might waive such title to identified inventions, but under nearly impossible conditions. It goes further and provides for a Federal Inventions Administration to develop such inventions and promote their widespread use.

Long's argument has that sort of surface plausibility which commends it to the uninformed. For he claims that since the taxpaying public has paid for the research that produced the inventions, the public should have the rewards.

But such a bill would drive the ax of government into a very complex set of private rights and conditions. In many instances it would not serve the public interest at all, but would make it more difficult for the public to enjoy the benefit of science, research, invention and discovery.

**REWARDS FOR INVENTIONS**

The rights of the contracting company which supplied the managerial know-how and recruited and directed the scientists and technicians are to be considered. Very often the company has pooled its technical resources in such operations, and thus it is difficult to know whether the invention actually came from the government contract. The company may already have prior patent rights involved in the new invention.

There are also the individuals whose brains and experience have produced the invention. In giving rewards for inventions and discoveries, it must generally be recognized that most such developments come from more than one person working on a project. The helpers as well as the department head deserve credit. Motive is a paramount consideration. The company's motive is to make a legitimate profit. The motives of the individual inventors are the sheer joy of creation, the credit and public notice and their deserved pecuniary reward.

In some big companies, contracts of employment with scientists and technicians provide that all rights to inventions go to the employer and that no employee may take out a patent on something which was developed on the company's time. More enlightened company practice, however, is to give the individual inventor a share in the profits.

**KENNEDY GUIDELINES**

In the past, agencies of government have followed various rules in making contracts. But in 1963 President Kennedy stated certain guidelines to be followed. He asserted the public interest in all government-supported operations. But he also stated that where a contractor "has an established non-governmental commercial position and where there is greater likelihood that the invention would be worked [out] and put into civilian use than would be the case if the invention were made more freely available," the contractor should have exclusive rights.

Senator McClellan has a bill which would recognize this distinction. It would recognize the government's rights to inventions or discoveries which would have an enormous impact upon the public welfare or to a device usable only in military operations. But beyond such exceptions the contractor's and the individual's rights would prevail.

In any commercial product there is a wide gap between the invention or discovery and the marketing of the product. Unless there is a profit motive for the investment of the necessary capital-and this may involve great risk-the product may not reach the public at all. And if such a bind is imposed as Long proposes, certain contracts may not be accepted. Or inventors or companies might not disclose what they invent or discover by applying for a patent. In such cases, the public interest would be very poorly served indeed.

Newsweek, January 10, 1966

=== FILE: batch2_36_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

PERSPECTIVE

THE KEPT SOCIETY

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The President's various speeches and messages in January had a remarkable consistency of philosophy. Taken together, they unfold the reaches of what he calls The Great Society—a borrowed expression which incorporates what he considers will be the state of the nation of the future. It is necessary here, therefore, to lay aside for later consideration the details of the programs recommended to Congress and view the implications in the two general statements—the message on the state of the union and the Inaugural Address to the nation. These are what are called “ceremonial orations,” in which, according to Aristotle’s classic “On Rhetoric,” “the facts are taken in trust.” But what do the President’s orations mean? And what do they portend?

Nothing less than the assumption of an omnipotent and omniscient state. To lift or reduce people to the level of an average standard of life, to cure the ill, to comfort the afflicted, to teach the ignorant and the young, and, while these benefits are bestowed, to make beautiful and comfortable the physical environment. All these blessings are to come from laws and appropriations administered by a vast bureaucracy. The people are not to minister, but be ministered unto.

THE GREAT OMISSION

The ominous omission in all this was a portrayal of the real state of the union. That would have taken account of what has been done over the many generations in private life and at the level of state and local authority. In those areas, the worthy ends and ideals embodied in the President’s rhetoric have also been the ends and ideals of millions of Americans, individually and collectively. They have been laboring as individuals, in private associative efforts, or through the state and local governmental agencies. The pursuit of happiness has always been an American habit. Security, well-being, and freedom from the vicissitudes of life have been an American objective. The embodiment of these efforts are in a vast aggregation of agencies outside the Federal government.

Consider a few of these: state and local governmental improvement and welfare; corporative and labor-union programs for workers’ welfare and security; immense philanthropic endowments for health, education, the arts, churches, and scientific inquiry. All these have worked and should continue to work even more vigorously for the improvement of our life. There is scant recognition of these efforts in the Johnson concept of his Great Society. But even if the Federal government should double its spending for these ends, it would still be a minor part of what is needed and of what is being done.

JOHNSONIAN EUPHORIA

But the implication that the Federal establishment can take over the care and nourishment of our aims and ideals will not help but wither these present activities. A sort of Gresham’s law prevails. When the Federal horn of plenty pours, other activities for betterment dry up. Governors and mayors buy tickets to Washington rather than employ the courage and ingenuity to solve their problems at home. Private individuals with means withhold their contributions. Philanthropic agencies feel the pinch of inflation. And the individual loses the incentive to provide for himself.

A sort of euphoria pervades the President’s pretensions to do all through Federal help. This rises not only from the intoxication induced by the possession of great power, but from Lyndon Johnson’s own experience. No President since James Buchanan has served so long and exclusively in the Federal government. The Johnson record covers 33 years. Most Presidents have been relative newcomers in Washington. And even such Congressional veterans as McKinley and John F. Kennedy had only about half the experience of Mr. Johnson. Thus, with little background except service in Congress, there emerges an addiction to Federal remedies.

The danger is that we shall have not a great and self-reliant society, but a kept society. History has told us of other societies which have suffered this blight on private initiative. And the end of such paternal regimes is not pleasant reading.

Newsweek, February 8, 1965

=== FILE: batch2_40_page0.txt ===
PERSPECTIVE

THE MANY-MEMBERED GOP

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Two solid truths, if grasped firmly, should dissipate much of
the fog which now envelops Republicans over the nation. But judging
from what so many GOP leaders are saying, they seem to have forgotten
these durable facts.

One is that political talk is mostly make-believe. The other is that an
American political party is a many-membered thing.

The words, slogans, and much of the activity of political leaders are
mostly meaningless. They are designed to evoke from the public
certain mental and emotional reactions and to serve the concerns of leaders
struggling for power and influence.

In the present context, the expressions "moderate" and "progressive" as
they are used by so many are without substance. These good words
wrenched from their true meanings serve merely to throw salt in wounds
opened in 1964 and to prevent GOP reconstruction from getting on in
many states, congressional districts, and local communities in preparation
for the 1966 elections.

ROMNEY'S GENERALITIES

To illustrate my point, I use the attractive and successful governor of
Michigan, George Romney. I could as easily illustrate my point with Gov-
ernors Rockefeller and Scranton or Senators Javits, Case, and Kuchel.
Romney wanted to be elected and re-elected governor in 1962 and
1964. He had to contend with certain powerful minority interests in his
state—the big labor unions and the Negroes. The nomination of Senator
Goldwater, he believed, threatened the party vote of those interests. Also,
there were some, not all, of the owners and managers of the large
industries of the state who feared that Goldwater's election would "unsettle"
the business boom. But the Romney expressions before, during, and
since the campaign ran to generalities and he repeated over and over the
clichés adopted by the GOP governors at Denver, that the party
should be "inclusive," not "exclusive," and that an "extremist" is someone
who wants to create a monolithic GOP. This sort of thing is all for the
birds and the voters. The realities are the interests centered in each of


50 states, among which there are great differences.

Only once in four years is there anything like a national political
party. In the long stretches between, what are called Democratic and Re-
publican parties consist of innumerable groups—state and local—and the
party memberships in Congress that in turn are elected at the state and
local level.

CONSENSUS UNNECESSARY

The decision which imposes this disparate character upon our parties
was made in 1787 when, because of the great differences among the
thirteen states, the statesmen who wrote our Constitution created a Fed-
eral republic. This left to the states most of the powers they had hitherto
exercised and created a Federal establishment to care for limited na-
tional interests. Our party system, so far as the two major parties have
been concerned, was imposed upon this Federal pattern. The governors,
U.S. senators, and congressmen are elected in conformity with the in-
terests of their constituencies. The party organizations of the states, dis-
tricts, and local communities conform to these various interests. If we
would recognize this, much of the hullabaloo about a national "consen-
sus" would disappear.

To bring the matter down to the practicalities of the present, we need
not worry about a "consensus" until 1968. The GOP's problem now is to
look to 1966 when a new House and some senators and governors are
to be elected. Political leaders should stop looking at the stars and get down
to their work at home. This is as it has always been after the echoes of
a national election have died away. And this is as it will be in the future.

The immediate bone of contention is the chairmanship of the Republi-
can National Committee. Dean Burch is not the chairman of the GOP. And
his authority is largely limited to the direction of the small staff in his
Washington office. He has no authority over his party in Congress or
in the 50 state GOP organizations. So whether Dean Burch goes or
stays, the Republican Party will remain as it has always been, scattered
through the states and in Congress.

Newsweek, January 11, 1965
