Perspective
Propaganda vs. Education
by Raymond Moley
BOY, OH, BOY. Man—Ten years ago, I ran across in a catalogue somewhere a copy of a book by Henry George. I sent in a bookstore near Michigan ave. and received a letter from a young man seeking there.
"Who?" I said, "Why, Henry George?" He indicated that he was no great economist.
"I never heard of him," he said, "all through my four years of economics training in the university. We are all Keynesians there."
"You have caught something that 60 years later I might have inquired with equal hostility about Adam Smith. Young man, might have been there 60 years hence some ways been learning about Henry George's 'Progress and Poverty' instead of 'General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money.'"
A further searching produced at what is wrong with the teaching of economics in our colleges. It shows that the same sort of indoctrination prevails in those teaching fields as in all the ones that recently have come under proper scrutiny. Students are being fed about the warped views that their youngsters bring home, and why parents are becoming concerned that they are paying for their children's education only to have teachers who are engaged in a sort of legal racket, a racket which is going to wreck us if it isn't stopped.
It also suggests why so many self-styled "liberals" are so violent in their reactions to Congressional investigations. Somehow they feel a certain immunity in their ideological position. They are not Communists, mark you. They embrace ideology which they feel the need to defend. If they were teaching net economics, not some special brand, they would not need to feel some sort of guilt to hide behind the noble slurs of freedom of inquiry. Their positions in public forums show that Communism in America can be conquered not by an exposition of our basic faith in American values, but by some such arrangement as welfarism or Fabian socialism.
But David McCord Wright, professor in the University of Virginia, David McCord Wright, wrote this recently in a letter to the New York Times:
"What sometimes happens, for instance, is economics courses in the United States are commonly followed by some sort of 'social philosophy' or heavily interventionist policy courses, but the capitalist case never gets heard at all."
"I do not argue for unintelligent or doctrinaire teaching—other similar subjects too books will know. But I feel equally strongly that it isn't right to have the fundamental principles of the free enterprise system played down in the text of economics courses, while that is not now being done. Due to the situation due to the fact the omission exists to be made. Rather the omission often grows out of pure ignorance.
"The average teacher of economics does not even know the case against his ideas, for he has never been exposed to it. The situation remains perfectly well known by the people supporting them—and not denied. Yet nothing is being done to get it answered."
Long ago, it became obvious to me that economics teaching in today's biased economics teaching is not so much as to tell people where wrong turns were made in the development. At the moment, an excellent example to hand, better Knight of the University of Chicago free enterprise professor of economics, has for a long time been defending genuine economics values against the deluge. Lawrence Gregory there, have taken a leading part in his school's revolt which is the latest most comprehensive, and fairest statement of all schools of economic thought that I have seen for many years. It is good to know that truth will prevail in the end.
What is all this going back in our colleges, for the great majority of texts now most widely used are clearly slanted toward state welfarism. One need only read a catalog of most of our colleges.
But Knight and Hitter have raised up a good school which and teachers, not propagandists, may well repair.
[Newsweek, July 13, 1953]
