THE MAGAZINE OF NEWS SIGNIFICANCE 

















Lockheed P-38 Lightnings—powered by Allison engines and originally designed as 


fighter planes—are now being used also as one-man bombers against the Japs. * 


When the two bombs—one ton under each wing —are released, the Lightnings 


continue in combat as fighters —a dual attainment made 
possible by the engines’ extremely light 
weight, less than one pound per 
horsepower,* which gives the plane 
superlative lifting power as well as 
speed. %& This extreme light 
weight — long the dream of 
engineers the world over — is a 
product of Allison precision and 

skill in handling metals — a 

precision and skill which 

will mark any product 

ever bearing the Allison 


name. 


KEEP AMERICA STRONG 
BUY MORE WAR BONDS 


POWERED BY ALLISON 
P-38 —Lightning 
P-39— Atracobra 
P-go— Warhawk 
4-36 and P-51A— Mustang 
P-63 —Kingcobra 


*Actual weight of Allison engine is 
7/8 b. per hp. Allison was first 
engine of less than one [b. per hp. 


LIQUID-COOLED AIRCRAFT ENGINES 


jpn 


DIVISION OF 
indianapolis, indiana 














Every Sunday Afternoo—GENERAL Motors SYMPHONY OF THE Airn— NBC Network 





j \ in 
| , \ ‘ \ 
» \ = 
\ \ 
SS \ N 











— a Cups feu “oN 
= >) yy, 
NS WATT Ci 


S2 ae ; 


\li meograph = 
du plicalor 














MINT PINEAPPLE 


DOWN 
| THE 





HATCH! 


It would shiver the timbers of an old-time seafar- 
ing man —to see ice cream served aboard ship in | 
the middle of the ocean! There was nothing like 
that in the old days. Not even vanilla. 


But in the old days, there was nothing aboard 
ship like today’s compact, fast working, ice cream 
plant — with G-E Refrigeration Equipment. This 
unit was especially engineered to stand up under 
the rocking, rolling, pounding motions of a war- 
ship on duty. It was engineered for cramped quar- 
ters, where every foot of space is precious. 


To meet special requirements of navy, army 


|  GENERAL@® 


Sa ond he Commercial Refrigeration 


Tune ins The “G-E HOUSE PARTY,” every afternoon, Monday through Friday, 4p. m.,EWT,CBS.. The “G-€ ALL-GIRL ORCHESTRA,” Sundays, 10p. m, EWT, NBC 

















and war plants . . .General Electric has pioneered 
new developments in refrigeration and air condi- 
tioning. 


These improvedtechniques and equipment will 


be available for peacetime use . . . for. process 
control of moisture, temperature . . . to maintain 


temperature and moisture content of raw materials 
and finished goods in storage . . . to cool or air 
condition any area, from a small but vital “‘control 


‘spot’ to an entire building. i: i 
General Electric Co., Air Conditioning Depariment, 


Section 5876, Bloomfield, New Jersey. 


ELECTRIC 


. +» THE WORLD TODAY” News, Monday through Friday, 6:45 p.m., EWT,CBS 








k is published weekly by WEEKLY PUBLICATIONS, INC., 350 Dennison Ave., Dayton 1, Ohio; Entered as second class matter at Postoffice of Dayton, Ohio, under the act of March 8, 1879. 





Cc 
I 
I 
f 
I 


mu tbe A Oe mt le 














_ CAN YOU KEEP HIM SAFE? 


Did you know that he will be in- 
jured four times during his lifetime 
—if the present accident rate continues ? 

During his early years, burns and 
poison will be his principal enemies. So 
keep him out of the kitchen and away 
from open fires, unless you are there to 
watch him every second. Don’t leave 
matches within his reach and be sure that 

@ poisons in medicine closets are locked 
safely away from his prying fingers. 

During his active years the risks 
of the highway will be an ever-present 
menace and he may be injured while 
he is at work. Finally, in his old age, 
falls become the biggest threat to 
his safety. 

Preventing ‘accidents which cause 
pain and sorrow and loss to 9,000,000 
men, women and children every year 
is a heavy responsibility for you and 
all Americans. It is a responsibility 
in which insurance has an important 
obligation. . 

Liberty Mutual ‘“‘works to keep you 


safe’? — by making available practical 
research into the causes of accidents 
in the home and on the highway and by 
advising how they can be prevented 
. . . alsa by co-operating with business 
management to eliminate accidents 
wherever men and women work. 

When unavoidable accidents do occur, 
Liberty Mutual ‘‘works to keep you 
safe’ from their consequences. If you 
are a home or car owner, we will protect 


LIBERTY © MUTUAL 


INSURANCE COMPANY / 
a NOME OFFICE: BOSTON 


We work to beep you safe 








you from the loss of your home and 
savings ... we will pay fair claims 
against you promptly . . . we will pro- 
tect your peace of mind by safeguarding 
you from fraudulent or exaggerated 
claims. 

Liberty Mutual “works to keep you 
safe’ from the loss of your home 
and savings by recommending the 
insurance coverages you need for 
complete protection. Write or tele- 
phone your local Liberty Mutual 
office for free copy of a striking new 
chart. It pictures the hazards which 
menace your security and well-being 
as a car and home awner. It shows 
graphically how you can take ad- 
vantage of recent improvements 
which have been made in broadening 
personal insurance coverages. Write’ 
today for “How to Protect Your 
Home and Savings.”” No cost. No 
obligation. Nearly all our salesmen 
are in the service. They will be back 
to serve you — when peace is won. 







FLORSHEIM 
SHOES 
wh Willig for 


NEWSWEEK 


LETTERS 






I came across something while reading my 
copy of Newsweex for June 11 under Sports 
that, in the parlance of the marines, “snows” 
me. Your correspondent relates that fishing 
expeditions in the Southwest Pacific are car- 
ried out. with dynamite or grenades and 
various types of food, which in two places 
he refers to as “chum.” During my three and 
a half years in the service, I have heard any. 
thing edible referred to by a number of 
names, but I confess that my military edu. 
cation must have been rather sadly neglected, 
because to.me the word “chum” has always 
meant a friend. Admittedly, food is an ex- 
ceptionally good friend, but I am wondering 
if there might not have been a double typo. 
graphical error in the column. 


Prc. D. D. Know es Jr. 
Camp Lejeune, N.C. 


Webster defines “chum” as chopped fish, 
lobsters, or the Uke, thrown overboard to 
draw fish. According to NEWSWEEK’s story, 
“chow” like “cons of mixed vegetables, 
corned beef, hash, and sausage” makes good 





“chum” too. 
Rank Discrimination 

In comparison with the other abomina- 
tions of the war the following may be unim- 
portant. It is not, however, to many of us 
so minuscule that a little airing of the matter 
might not prove generally salutory. 

A few weeks ago in Manila a very lovely 
Spanish girl was asked te join a party at a 
local night club as the guest of a technical 
sergeant in the engineers. The young lady 
refused on the ground that she “couldn’t af- 
ford to be seen with an enlisted man.” 

It happens that this enlisted man was a 
well-educated man (B.A., LL.B.) and had 
had a successful law practice in the States, 
is a book collector and a minor authority on 
James Joyce; in short, a man quite accept- 
able from ariy reasonable @ivilian standpoint. 
That girl, like so many of her American 
brothers and sisters, has developed an atti- 
tude which has become pretty damned an- 
noying to many of us—that is, considering ; 
rank as an almost absolute criterion of ac- 
ceptability, social and otherwise, and adopt- 
ing a pseudo-kindly, but definitely patron- 
izing attitude toward the GI. 

If the distinctions drawn were only social 
the implications might be merely inconven- 
ient, but many of these topnotch men are 
coming back to civilian life worried that the 
personnel men may be more interested ,in 
what rank the jobseeker held in the Army 
than in what he can do. 

Let’s get our standards back to normal. 

SERVICEMAN’s NAME WITHHELD 

c/o Postmaster 

San Francisco, Calif. 


The American Farmer 


I wish to commend you for the very fine 
picture of the “American Farmer” on the 
front cover of your July 2 issue. The wrinkles 


| Index this Issue—page 15 | 











WHEN THE THERMOMETER SOARS, 
and humidity soaks the air, all 
sorts of trouble seem to set in. 
People are uncomfortable, irri- 
tableand short tempered . . . their 
efficiency sags. Even your own 
secretary usually cool, calm - 
collected gets hot, bothered . 
and uncollected! 


The customers in retail stores 
shrink from crowds to couples. 

The productive output of many 
industries is handicapped because 
manufacturing processes are af- 
fected by the excesses of heat and 
moisture. 

It happens every summer, but it 

needn’t. For Carrier, with its mas- 

tery of indoor climate, can make 
sure that it doesn’t. 


There’s trouble in the air... 


Carrier air conditioning provides 
fresh, clean air and distributes it 
evenly, draughtlessly. The tem- 
perature and humidity of this air 
is regulated constantly, winter and 
summer. Carrier levels out the 
seasons, gives you the climate you 
want the year ’round. 

This kind of air conditioning 
calls for a specialist. It is no job for 
a Jack-of-all-trades, but a task for 
the master of one. 


Since Carrier founded the indus- 
try 43 years ago, it has been de- 
voted exclusively to air condition- 
ing and refrigeration . . . and has 
consistently led the way. 

In 118 foreign countries . . . in 
many of the world’s most famous 
~ buildings . . . on hundreds of 


globe-girdling ships—and today in 
thousands of specialized war appli- 
cations, Carrier has proven an 
ability unmatched in the industry. 


Tomorrow this “know how’’ will 
work for you . . . in your home 
and office . .. in your favorite 
stores and restaurants . . . in help- 
ing produce more and better things 
for a peacetime America. 


Carrier Corporation « " Byescien’ N. Y. 





Carrier 
oS eae 


AIR CONDITIONING ¢ REFRIGERATION 








lg 


i es 


ao 




















COPYRIGHT 1945, JONES @ LAUGHLIN STEEL CORPORATION 









































ee ee cae 





paseo RT SEB oy 




















STEEL DRUMS FOR WAR 
WILL SERVE PEACE, TOO 


The conversion of steel sheets into 
sturdy drums for the safe, economical 
packaging and shipment of vital replace- 
ment parts and an ever-increasing 
variety of manufactured products other 
than the familiar liquids — gasoline, oil, 
chemicals — is another of those service- 
able applications of this most versatile 
of our metals that has contributed might- 
ily to the winning of the war and that 
holds such useful promise in the peace- 
ful world before us. 

Skilled men manning machines of 
ingenious design carry this operation 
through from flat steel sheets to finished 
drums at a pace that would make the 
old-time cooper blink with amazement. 
By the millions, steel drums, barrels, 
other containers come off the lines of the 
J&L Steel Barrel Company and other 
barrel plants. Here is production of hand- 
made quality with machine speed; the 
steady rhythm of progress that is a sym- 
bol of American ingenuity and enterprise. 


JONES & LAUGHLIN STEEL CORPORATION 


J & L STEEL BARREL COMPANY 
PITTSSURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 


: CONTROLLED QUALITY STEEL FOR WAR AND PEACE 


J&b 
STEEL 


as AN ORIGINAL DRAWING AND SKETCHES MADE AT JAL STEEL BAWREL PLANT AT BAYONNE, WN. J. BY ORISON MACPHERSON 


Ss 





WAR DRUMS 


“Canning” airplane engines for shipment is 


‘becoming commonplace practice. Starters, 


generators, instruments and cylinders are 
among the items now packed with desic- 
cants in hermetically sealed steel drums to 
afford complete protection against break- 
age, dust and moisture during shipment by 
sea or air, or storage in transit. This new 
technique, developed by J&L Steel Barrel 
Company with Air Technical Service Com- 
mand, has become of increasing military 
importance, now that total war has moved 
into the salt-laden humidity and heat of 
the Pacific climate, which, overnight, breeds 
sporadic growths of fungi and mildews. 


Other “canned” war items for which J&L 
Steel Barrel Company has made special con- 
tainers are bagged powder, smoke pots, 
75mm. shells, The barrel company also de- 
veloped a large, smokeless powder box and 
produced them in quantity. Bomb fins and 
bomb fin crates are other war products of 
J &L barrel plants in addition to their 
regular line of products. 


Mortar shell program was speeded by J&L 
Steel Barrel Company’s development of 
new mass production precision technique 
for making base discs for 4.2-inch mortar 
shells, at half cost of handmade discs. 


Army chapel seats, oil drums with planks 
laid across them, in a tent, held many per- 
sonnel on the European Front, until the 
boys built a church with salvaged materials, 
wrote Maj. J. H. Cook to LIFE magazine. 


Empty drums for Gl bathtubs are popular 
in S. Pacific, also for heating stoves and, 
locked end to end, as storm culverts, 


How to retain glycerine, which has a genius 
for seeping out of tightest coopered wooden 
barrel, was answered about 1906 by appear- 
ance in Europe of a steel barrel built along 
bulgy lines of familiar wooden barrel. Amer- 
ican petroleum industry, with products 
having a highly seepy nature, was quick to 
adopt new container. But the bulge or 
“bilge” shaped barrel soon had a formidable 
rival, the drum type barrel, with straight 
sides, embossed hoops, to strengthen and 
make rolling easier. 


Demand for “one-trippers,” or containers 
that need not be returned, opened wide a 
door to endless new uses for the light-weight, 
inexpensive steel drum, as the bilge type 
steel barrel must be made of heavy steel 
to maintain its barrel-like contours. 


Barrels from strip mills, as well as from for- 
ests, from steel barrel plants, as well as 
from cooperage shops is the course barrels 
have traversed in 40 years. Today barrels 
made of steel sheets are produced with spe- 
cial presses and machinery (see illustration), 
as against the method of skilled coopers, 
building each barrel by hand. J&L Steel 
Batrel Company has plants of most modern 
type in Bayonne, Cleveland, Kansas City, 
Lake Charles, New Orleans, Philadelphia 

Port Arthur, St. Louis. e 


e 















































: Ewing Galloway 
Worrying about the weather? 


and worried look on his face express very 
forcefully the farmers’ concern about their 
No. 1 problem of 1945 . . . the weather. 
Rev, J. E. Brewer 
St. George, Kans. 
O-we-go, Ow-kay! 

I would like to point out that Wac Cpl. 
Margaret Hastings, “Shangri-la Queen,” is 
not, as reported {( NEWswEEK, July 9), from 
Oswego, N. Y., but Owego, N.Y. You will 

- appreciate, and so will Owego, that credit 
should be given where credit is due. 
Mrs. Geo. WHEELER 

Endicott, N. Y. 


@ Looks like some proofreader was on the 
job to too great a degree. The post office has 
the same trouble. 

Lt: W. C. GatvacHer, U.S.N. 


c/o FPO 
New York, New York ‘ 


Newsweek's apologies to Owego. 


nr 





GI Bill for Merchant Seamen? 

Merchant Seaman Morales’s plea in your 
aid | issue of July 9 (Letters) for inclusion in the 
et si a _ GI Bill of Rights is not without merit. 

Conversely, however, equity would de- 
| mand each member of the armed forces be 
| granted the rights and privileges of the mer- 
chant marine embracing civilian status, com- 
Fewer Marlboros for you perhaps mensurate salaries, an eight-hour day, over- 

time, and area and combat bonuses. 
... but more for the boys. 


Lt. (j.c.) A. W. Wiitias, U.S.N.R. 


They're getting their supply of | c/o FPO 
America’s luxury cigarette . . . New York City 
lavishly blended, firmly packed, @ Having been assigned to merchant ships 


! as ed-guard der-for the past 
a | SESE 











Cigarette of suceesstul men and lovely women. 


. 








WEEK 


— 


sS very 
t their 
er. 


HLER 


ic Cpl. 
en,” is 
), from 
ou will 
- credit 


ELER 


on the 
fice has 


S.N. 


in your 
1 in the 


ild de- 
rces be 
he mer- 
$s, com- 
J, over- 


.N.R. 



















ROM NOW ON, we're going to find the 
Devil constantly at our elbow. 
He'll be tempting us to consult our own 
pleasure and convenience each time 
we’re faced with questions like these: 


“Is it really a life-or-death matter to 
some youngster if I skip an appoint- 
ment to give blood ?” 

**Is it still necessary to keep on buy- 
ing War Bonds with every spare 
cent?” 


**Is it honestly vital that I stick to 
my job, drive slowly, stay off trains, 





A aeitleman we'll be mecling often, how 


save fuel and paper, and support the 
rationing program?” 

Thrusting Satan sternly behind us 
isn’t going to be easy. 


But, all of us can make it easier by 
realizing this: if we let up now, we can 
actually prolong the war. ° 


And men will die who otherwise might 
live. 


Young & Rubicam, Inc., Advertising, New 
York, Chicago, Detroit, San Francisco, 
Hollywood, Montreal, Toronto, London 


map seer 








Two Ways to Solve Your Problem 
on Die-Cut Paper Specialties 











MOON ABOUT IT 


WHILE MOWING THE LAWN f 








5 


> 




















Your present-moment production problems, dike ours, may be 
directly related to war work. At the same time your thinking must 
- include plans for the peacetime products you will make and sell 
when this war is over. Plans to resume manufacture of a prewar 
product, or bring out an entirely new item may even at this point 
have brought forth the necessity of a die-cut paper or paperboard 
gadget. Maybe the gadget is to be a component part of the product 
itself. Maybe it’s a printed promotional device to hang on the neck 
of a bottle, to snap in the top of a can, or to lock around a handle. 
That’s where Dennison comes in. Whether you want an onionskin 
washer or an eyeleted binder board disc . . . whether it’s to be a 
merchandise card to hold bobby pins or an arrow that points out the 
special construction feature of a shoe, we think our gadgeteers are a 
source of help you can’t afford to pass by. So even though you are 
still in the planning stage, put your problems up to 


Dennioon 


PAPER PRODUCTS FOR MORE THAN A CENTURY 





We're in war work, too. In fact, that work has added considerably to our 
long experience in die-cutting paper components and specialties for the 
leaders of American industry. Right now it practically limits us from offering 
more than help in development work. But if you'd like to plan today in prep- 
aration for tomorrow, write Dennison, 50-Ford Ave., Framingham, Mass. 


TAGS + LABELS © SEALS + SET-UP BOXES - MARKING SYSTEMS ° PAPER SPECIALTIES 








10 NEWSWEEK 
Eee 


thority concerning the personnel of such 
ships. 

In Newsweex of July 9, one José A. 
Morales speaks of the “inequity our merchant 
marine is receiving by being utterly left out 
of the GI Bill of Rights.” My question is: 
Why should they feel they should have any 
share in it? 

Their usual comeback to such a question 
is: The United States Merchant Marine has 
lost a greater percentage of men per thou- 
sand than any branch of service. This is true. 
But may I ask why the percentage is so high? 
The answer is that they wanted to take such 
risks so that they could cash in on the “big 
money” that was being paid in bonuses, port 
calls, raids on their ship, and bombings. No 
one made them take such ships—they asked 
for them, so that they. could make plenty of 


money, which. many did, and others lost’ 


their lives. 

The usual merchant marine that “sacri- 
ficed” his education to participate in this war 
did so when the draft board started breath- 
ing down his neck! 

Nava Orricer’s NAME- WITHHELD 

c/o FPO 

New York City ; 

Hogarth, by Request 

For the interest and illumination of your 

readers, will you please print a large repro- 





Culver 


‘Hogarth’s lady, deliberating 


- duction of Hogarth’s “The Lady’s Last 


Stake,” (NewswEeExk, June 25)? 
N. Matraew Davis 


Maryville, Tenn. 


NEWSWEEK ayerere from the story in ques 
tion: “The. . . only example of his ‘moral 


the story of ‘a young and virtuous married 
lod Glineie: (inten at cards cotton officer, 
loses her money, watch, and.jewels . . . he 
offers them back in retum for her honor and 


THE CONSIDERATION OF A UNI- 
VERSAL PEACETIME DRAFT LAW BY 
CONGRESS AT THIS TIME SEEMS BE- 
YOND COMPREHENSION TO MANY 
OF US HERE PERIOD THAT THERE 
IS A POSSIBILITY THAT SUCH A LAW 
MAY BE ENACTED WHILE ELEVEN 
(MILLION CITIZEN SOLDIERS ARE UN- 


ABLE TO a AN OPINION ON 








1941... 


‘Building America 


1945... 


Conquering jungle 


When rubber teams with steel ... 


was a construction worker here at home, long before 

war sent him on a ten thousand mile journey. He was 

one of the thousands of Americans who take to handling 

hydraulic tools naturally...who know about the power 
that flows through slender hose. 

He’s still in a construction gang...but doing a different 
job under different conditions...clearing jungles, smooth- 
ing air strips on coral atolls, building revetments for planes. _ 

High-pressure hose puts the strength of a giant into his 

- hands... hose of flexible rubber, fortified with braided steel 
wire... hose that controls and conveys tremendous pressures. 

To achieve this useful teaming of rubber and steel, long 
and patient effort had to come first. United States Rubber 
Company technicians—chemists, engineers, craftsmen — 
coordinated their skills, focussed them on his needs. 


SERVING THROUGH SCIENCE 


By serving through science, they gave these fighting builders 
—the Army Corps of Engineers and the doughty Seabees— 
hose capable of withstanding highest working pressures, of 
resisting the effects of jungle heat and arctic cold. 

The backlog of experience needed for such servicewas laid 
in the years before 1941. It takes a big business to meet 
such needs. But a business only grows big because people 
like its products. When you bought “U.S.” rubber products 
in the past, you were creating work for men and women. 
You helped build this company—helped give it force. 

That force is still backing our fighting men. It will con- 
tinue to do so until the Pacific victory is secured. Sea- 
soned and strengthened then by its intensive wartime 


experience, the U.S. Rubber organization will enthusias- 
tically return to its civilian job. 


Listen to ‘Science Looks Forward” —new series of talks by the 
great scientists of America—on the Philbarmonic-Sympbony 


Program. CBS network, Sunday afternoon, 3:00 to 4:30 E.W.T. 


UNITED STATES 


RUBBER COMPANY 


1220. SIXTH AVENUE, ROCKEFELLER CENTER, NEW YORK 20, N. Y. ° 


In Conada: DOMINION: RUBBER CO., Led. 








POSTWAR . | 
TRACTOR-TRAILERS WILL BE 


Picture your 
huge tractor-trailer 
outfits of the future roar- 


along through the night, with 
ie ty tough due to bad wea- 


aeeet Sone os. That’s when there 


can be no 
need the 
youre wl ree when 

eyo cl Blas Brakes, controls on 
the 


load and road sates: With this absolute ae 
tor and trailer will “come in at the seme instant but with peedasermin- 
meennenereriene Thus the tendency to skid or jack-knife will 
prevented — nary tractor-trailer trains can be slowed down or 
mopped ui safely — to afford greater protection to drivers 
loads, a | a I ap eng an: Sl 

Ie is significant that thousands of trailers now in use for essential transport 


work, 
and more thousands of trailing vehides in the mechanized forces of Allied 
armies the world over, are with Warner *Vari-Load” Electric Brakes. 







itive action 
es, but is a 
Snead Gomme 


WARNER ELECTRIC BRAKE MFG. CO., Beloit, Wis. 


_ WARNER. 
6s. 


CONTROLLED SPLIT-SECQND STOPPING POWER FOR ANY PURPOSE 

















12 NEWSWEEK 
——EEeE—————————————__——— ee 


ITS MERITS WOULD BE. A GREATER 
TRAGEDY THAN THE PASSAGE OF 
THE PROHIBITION LAW DURING THE 
LAST WAR PERIOD IT IS HOPED THAT 
YOU WILL BRING TO THE ATTEN. 
TION OF THE PUBLIC THE. MANY 
OBVIOUS REASONS WHY ANY CON. 
‘SIDERATION BY CONGRESS OF LEG. 
ISLATION OF THIS NATURE SHOULD 
BE DELAYED UNTIL AFTER THE 
PEACE PERIOD INASMUCH AS CON. 
TINUATION OF THE PRESENT DRAFT 
LAW WILL MEET ALL MILITARY DE. 
MANDS DURING THE WAR AND THE 
IMMEDIATE PERIOD FOLLOWING IT 
IS DIFFICULT TO FIND ANY REASON 
FOR RUSHING LEGISLATION ON A 
MEASURE THAT MAY WELL CHANGE 
THE CHARACTER OF OUR NATION 
WITHOUT AT LEAST ASCERTAINING 
WHAT TODAYS SOLDIER BELIEVES 
THE WISEST COURSE FOR HIS COUN. 
TRY TO FOLLOW 

Maj. ‘PHiuiP BaILey 

LeHavre. - ~ ~ 


@ The one fundamental question behind all 
arguments for or against conscription should 
never be overlooked. It is: Can America pro- 
tect herself after the war without conscrip- 
tion? Speaking as realists, there can only be 
one answer to that question: NO. 

War is not quite so evil and vicious a 
thing as is the unpreparedness of a nation 
for that war. With all due respect to a world 
security organization, which we must also 
have, an unprepared. America in the world - 
of the future would be the greatest irony of * 
all history. 





Crt. Sam Rosinson 

c/o Postmaster 

San Francisco, Calif. 
Penny: Front and Back 

In Transition of the April 23 issue ( Battle 
Baby) there appeared a picture of Penny 
Edwards, a dancer from “Laffing Room 
Only,” parading through Times Square clad 
in nothing but a barrel. I'll admit that the 
rear view is pretty good, so now why don't 
you show what she looks like from the front? 
Jack E. Mason, Y 3/c 


~*~ 











c/o FPO 
San Francisco, Calif. 





International 


Penny: With and without her barrel 





‘ 


SSS ASS 


Ehlemeshoseieeiiaetiite Mf aiscseetetiaaed 





 &@ TEAM THAT's Mart Zo Coat 


~ 


WED os 9898 


ALLEGHENY 
The Time -Tetted. Stainless Stel 


a> 


HEREVER you find food in 

the course of preparation— 
in homes, restaurants, hotels, hos- 
pitals, railroad trains, ships, service 
bases, or the shining dairies, can- 
neries and packing plants of the 
nation—you're pretty sure also to 
find Allegheny Metal, America’s 
pioneer stainless steel. 


Food and Allegheny Metal sup- 
plement each other like Mother- 
and-daughter; they’re a team, just 
about inseparable. That’s' because 

_ Allegheny Metal isn’t stained or 
attacked by any food or fruit acid— 
because it’s easy to clean and keep 
clean, and has a high sanitation 


factor—because it’s tremendously 
strong, and for all we know, doesn’t 
even wear out! The first installations 
made of it are about 20 years old 
now, and they’ re stillas good as ever. 

What’s more, Allegheny Metal 
forms and welds easily, and is 
highly uniform and dependable in 
quality—a great virtue to any fabri- 
cator. There may be a lot of places 
where stainless steel can fit profit- 
ably into your future. Let us lend a 
hand in your planning. 


Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corporation 
Brackenridge, Pa. 


METAL 


ALSO HANDLED AND STOCKED BY ALL JOSEPH YT. RYERSON & SON, INC. WAREHOUSES 


woah, 


* 





Water-borne polyvinyl resins provide 
safer, simpler coating methods 


GEON latex is a film-forming plastic material used 
to apply thin coatings to fabric, paper, fibre, thread, 
wire or any other material to which coatings can be 
applied by conventional methods. It is a true latex— 
a water dispersion containing a solid content of ap- 
proximately 50% vinyl resin. Especially suitable for 
use in continuous processes, GEON latex is an easy- 
flowing, milk-like liquid of remarkably high stability. 
It is wot rubber and contains xo rubber. 


When suitably formulated GEON latex can be used 
with standard coating equipment. Variations in viscos- 
ity can be obtained to make GEON latex 
suitable for use with such machines as 
knife spreaders, air knife coaters, roller 
applicators and continuous dip tanks. 


In addition to the natural economy 


B. F. Goodrich Chemical Company | 


Geon 


Pot vinwl 


and simplicity of processing, GEON_ latex, being 2 
water system, offers safety advantages not to be found 
in solvent systems. The dangers of toxicity and ex- 
plosion are eliminated. Dangerous, expensive and 
cumbersome solvent recovery systems are emnecsesary 
because no solvent is used. 

GEON lIatex, like all latices, has its Sienleatlinns. It 
is not a “miracle material”, that will do:eway. with 
other coating methods. Yet already. its use ia military 
and related applications has proved that entire new 
fields in coatings will be opened up by this new, mate- 
rial, the development. of which was 2 
true scientific achievement. For - more 
information, write. Department AA-8, 
B. F. Goodrich Chemical Company, 


Valens Rose Building, Cleveland 15, Ohio. 


A DIVISION OF 4 
-THE B. F. ryan eae 


gm 











new 
ate- 
iS a 
ore 
A-8, 
ny, 
110. 


PANY 








ene carseat 


For Your 


Information ... 
Or of the most 


important as- 


whose nine 


Prisoner No.43004 inces have placed 





NEWSWEEK’s review 
of Canadian events. 
The Canada page 
must keep you in- 
formed on that good 
neighbor to the north 











John Thon Thompson 


her among the first three trading nations 
of the world and made her the fourth 
wartime industrial power of the United 
Nations. Moreover, we count it an im- 
portant service to readers of our do- 
mestic edition to provide better under- 
standing of the Canadian people who 
mobilized a million out of a population of 


less than 12,000,000. 


rOv- 


One of those fighting Canadians 
is John Thompson, ex-captain in the 





JULY 23, 1945 


Newsweek ao Sel iio.. 


Registered U.S. Patent Offi 
THE MAGAZINE OF NEWS sow Caes 





Board of Directors: 
VINCENT ASTOR 
irman 


*% BUSINESS, LABOR, AGRI- 
ULTURE, AVIATION . 


_% CANADIAN WEEK. . 
*& EDUCATION 
% FIGHTING FRONTS . 
% FOREIGN AFFAIRS . 
* FROM THE CAPITAL . 
* INTERNATIONAL SCENE 


- 
oeee 


ee 
% MOVIES . « e 
* MUSIC ... 
*% NATIONAL AFFAIRS 
* PAN AMERICAN WEEK 
* PERISCOPE 


oeet @eeee#ee«get @ @ @ @ 


2S 8 S SSSRRSLSVSBa- SSlLSE 


j 
i 
, 








President and Publisher: MALCOLM MUIR 
Managing 2£ditor: CHET SHAW 


Asst. Managing Editors: 
FRED VANDERSCHMIDT EDWIN STOUT 


Assocites mond Moley, Admiral William V. Pratt, 
U.S Ralph Robey, John Lardner. 

Associate aie ee eee — John Caldwell, Kenneth 
Crawford, Robert Humphre YS Clarence Judd, Harry F. 
Kern, Tom Sears, William Shenkel.+ 

News Editors: Elmer B. Dulm Dorothy hie Pan-Ameri- 
con Editor: Harry B. Mu: why Canedian Editor: John E. 
Thompson. Editorial Budget Director: Bernard P. angel- 
maier. 


Hobart Rowen, 


core Weint a London, - Nase 





ent ‘abe, Toni aivenl Geraldine 
Cri “Meni, oo J. Fagans. ont Horace Wads- 
ing. Harold R. 7s Roland 


ary M. Ahern Olga Barbi, Marguerite 
Emily ln Tech Davis, Eliza lizabeth Forsling, 
William ple, John Horn, Di irchner, 

] - McCusker Ralph D. Paladino, Karl 
§ George Y ells, James W. Wells, 


Assistant Editors: Sheila Baker, Willie W. Boddie, Tom W. 
Bynum Jr., John Denson, ag Ferrer, iy Ferris, 
Frances Fore, Diana Hirsh, Kelty, Paul E. 
Kline, Panos P. —_- Edward W. O’Brien, 
Katharine Riggs, isbury, Niles W. von Wettberg. 

Editorial Assistants: Carla oo Jean L. Bake: 
Barnwe ton, J. C 








1 Bo . Calamari, Lillian Chiriaka, 
Ruth Cul Helen §. Davis, Yole de Blasio, Natalie 
Doern izabeth M. Fowler, Lenore arrett, Har- 
riet Hi ay, omy y, ine, Mary B. Hood, Cecil 








H a Ruth Love- 
wp eeally Mecuwan, Blisstoth Miler Ehoe S. Mecls, 
Ann ‘O’Connor Susan Phelps, Pai tricia ney rom 
Rumbough, Elizabeth Shaw, Judith Siegel e 
Sinclair, Ruth R. Skattebol, Sherwin D. Smith, Alice 
Spinney, Ruth Werthman, Anne White. 

Photo and Art feobtente: Grace _Dostal, wb ag Fradin, 

, Edward C, Koller, Frank Nigra, An- 

thony Rollo, yy Rollo. 


*At the Fighting Fronts ‘lian in Action 
Vice ‘ones ond ae Manager: ee F. MUELLER 
Bon gh . BOM 





Address all correspondence regarding subscriptions to tion 
Department, Newsweek Broadway and 42nd 
York 18, New York. Changes of Address: Send both old nev. 














15 
Gusute Own Cameron » Highlanders of 
Canada, now NEwswEex’s Canadian Ed- 
itor. A graduate of the University of 
Manitoba, Thompson went into the army 
in 1940, spent nineteen months in Eng- 
land preparing for the Hitler invasion 
which never came, and landed on Dieppe 
on Aug. 19, 1942. John was one of the 
men who didn’t get back on schedule 
from that ill-fated raid. After leading his 
men 2 miles inland, he was wounded 
(left eye lost) and taken prisoner. He 
spent the next 25 months in German hos- 
pitals and prison camps. 


A Toronto and 
Winnipeg newspa- 
per reporter tured 
infantry officer, 
Thompson has _re- 
tained some vivid 
impressions of his 
long years in Nazi 
jands. His memories 
of fellow hospital in- 
mates give a strong 
taste of the stuff of 
which Canadians are 
made. At frequent 
intervals, the men 
used to plot various 
methods of escape, 
but were always hes- . 
itant because of the 
brutal reprisals 
threatened to those 
prisoners who _re- 
mained. Yet the boys who were most en- 


thusiastic about others escaping were the 
totally blind. 


Queen’s Own 


For his own diversion and that of 
his countrymen, Thompson wrote, di- 
rected, and produced a play in the prison 
hospital. The men staged several original 
shows, but the one John remembers best 
a called “Snow White and the Seven 

s” (repatriatees). The seven “dwarfs” 
wees played by one-legged soldiers and 
they stopped the show with a chorus 
dance in Rockette precision. 


In his weekly coverage of events 
affecting Canada’s politics, business 
trends, and daily life, Thompson has fre- 
quent occasion to think back on the men 
with whom he sweated out the war. To 
him, they represent a nation which, a 
few short years ago, carried little weight 
internationally, but which today is a 
world power, politically and economical- 
ly. From the daily papers of the major 
cities in each province; from correspond- 
ents in every capital city; and from his 
large number of personal friends in Can- 
ada, John Thompson. and his staff write 
for NEwswWEEK readers the story of a 
people to whom we owe appreciation, 
friendship, and, above all, understanding. 


Viz Sctcleee 














stnce 


FNING prRooucTs 

These are the things that make America strong...the 
industries that RB&W has served during its 100 years 
of developing better fasteners for better products. 


. No. 6 GenctalManiufaciaing 


\CCOAsSE... BOOM. 


TO ALL =- HELL=- LET -LOOSE 


‘a 
. 





: What Eli Whitney started over a century ago has reached its peak during these war years. Mass 
wl production . . . American Industry's not-so-secret weapon that even the prescient Hitler under-estimated . . , 
began with Whitney's ten muskets produced from interchangeable parts . . . Yet full advantage of close-tolerance 
machining could never have been realized without fasteners of utter uniformity . . . Such fasteners . . . bolts, nuts, 
and other types . . . were introduced . . . a century ago . . . by RB&W. As the years went on, operations became 
automatic (RB&W developed automatic cold-_ @& heading), accuracy improved, and any-RB&W fastener’ 
of given specifications could be depended upon to fit —assembling quickly, holding true and tight. 
: Today, millions of RB&W bolts and nuts fasten the fighting equipment that American 
Industry has put onto the field of battle in such astronomical numbers. Thanks to RB&W’s traditional policy of continually 
investing in. research, development work and modern machinery, we were ready when the call came . . . Now, 
RB&W begins its second “100 years” with continued great faith in America and its industries, to whom we 
pledge unceasing efforts to keep RB&W EMPIRE a name that stands for fasteners of maximum dependability. 


RBcW 


RUSSELL, BURDSALL & WARD BOLT AND NUT COMPANY 






ONG THE 
KING STR THING. 
e0td..WK 


mat MAKE AMERICA sTROw, 





Factories at: Port Chester, N.¥., Coracpolis, Po., Rock Folts, Hit. “Seles 
Detrelt, Chicege, Chettancoga, les Angeles, Pertiond, ie 
from coast to coast. The industry's 's mes? complete, eesiest-to-we cotalog. 


V 


\) 








ee ae ee 


a. 


Vou. XXYI, No. 4 K 








~~~ Newsweek 


istered U.S. Patent ice 





Jury 23, 1945 





SS = >= 


The Periscope 





- What’s Behind Today's 
News and What's to Be Expected 
in Tomorrow's 





Capital Straws 


Look for some congressmen to use 
Sen. Tom Stewart’s bill to make the Sur- 
plus Pro; Board autonomous as a 
springboard for an explosive inquiry into 
the di tion of war plants and mate- 
rials. They believe what appears to be 
only delay in working out an wre 
disposal policy may turn into something 
much more serious . . . Congressional 
sources think that President Truman will 
name a Republican to the Roberts va- 
cancy on the Supreme Court. They place 
Sen. Homer Ferguson of Michigan high 
on the list of possibilities . . . At least two 
Democrats aspire to succeed Republican 
Pat Hurley as Ambassador to China, 
should he resign or be recalled . .. WPB 
Chairman J. A. Krug is reported to be 
anxious to return to private industry. A 


major airline wants to hire him. Whether. 


the government will release him is an- 
other question . . . Fred Vinson, new Sec- 


retary of the Treasury, is expected to 
seek the transfer of the Export-Import 
Bank from the Foreign Economic Ad- 
ministration to his department. 


F. D. R.’s Wish 
An unpublished wish of the late Presi- 


~ dent Roosevelt is being discussed by 


tee 





Congressmen in connection with the 
Presidential succession bill. F. D. R. once 
told Sen. Harley Kilgore of West’ Vir- 
ginia that he wished the Vice President 
could be given authority to act for the 
President when the latter is out of the 
country. This, he said, would give the 
President a chance for a vacation. A 
President now must keep up with daily 
work even though he presumably is tak- 
ing a vacation on the ie as the 
id. 


late President frequently 
From Capitol Hill 

Despite the demands of Rep. John 
Rankin, the House leadership won't take 


up amendments to the GI Bill of Rights 
or Rankin’s bill to exempt veterans from 


Senator McKellar of Tennessee, presi- 


_ deat pro tem of the Senate, is privately 


opposing President Truman’s Presiden- 
tial succession bill, although he would 
be next in line after the Speaker of the 
House . . . Some members of Congress 
are privately telling War and Navy. De- 
partment officials that they are falling 
down on the job of dramatizing the Jap- 
anese war and report a lag in interest in 
some parts of the country (see page 23) 
. , .-A law that would give the War 
Labor Board the power to enforce its or- 
ders is under discussion again following 
defiance of the board in recent strikes. 


War's Loss to Science 


Senator “Magnuson of Washington 
soon will introduce a bill to establish a 
permanent Office of Scientific Research 
and Development under the President. 
The bill will provide for the annual 
training in U.S. colleges at government 
expense of thousands of young men and 
women in pure science, both under- 
graduates and postgraduates. Such train- 
ees thereafter pou go into business as 
they like, but for the rest of their lives 
would be on emergency call .at the dis- 
cretion of the President. Their status, 
though non-military, would be similar, to 
that of a reserve officer. The Magnuson 
bill is based on a report of Dr. Vannevar 
Bush, pointing out that the country has 
lost a whole generation of “pure scien- 
tists” as a result of the war and hinting 
that captured documents show how sci- 
entific research might have won the war 
for Germany in a few more months. 


Who Said Lousy? 


The caustic criticism of the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics, widely attributed to 
Lewis B. Schwellenbach, new Secretary 
of Labor, was really the result of wishful 
thinking on the part of a labor 
Jeader. In talking with Schwellenbach 
he said the BLS was “lousy.” Schwellen- 
bach said: “If it is lousy we'll have to 
change it and make it accurate.” The 
secretary was amazed next morning to 


‘ read that he had said the burean is 


“lousy.” However, he is having a thor- 
ough check made of the bureau’s opera- 
tions and has received complaints against 
it from every labor union official he has 
talked with. 


National Notes 

The WPB is being criticized for play- 
ing down: the improved pulp supply sit- 
uation for fear that its waste-paper drives 


_ would be affected .. . . Despite Eisen- 
hhower’s praise of the OWI’s services in 


the European war theater and strongly 
worded “topside” suggestions from Wash- 
ington, neither General MacArthur nor 
Admiral Nimitz has yet indicated willing- 
ness to accept an OWI adviser at’ staff 
level for future Pacific operations . . . The 
War Shipping Administration expects to 
operate the Tie German luxury liner 
Europa as ‘a troop transport in the rede- 
ployment of American forces from the 
European theater to the Pacific . . . The 
training-within-industry program of the 
War Manpower Commission, which has 
coached 1,800,000 war-plant supervisors 
since 1940, will wind up its activities 
around Jan. 1. 





? 


Our Embassy in Warsaw 


VU. S. officials who went to Warsaw in 
search of quarters for the American Em- 
bassy report that the villa designated for 
their use in a Warsaw suburb has mush- 
rooms growing on the floors and no roof. 
They are now trying to arrange for em- 
bassy quarters in the lobby of a Warsaw 
hotel, the rest of which is completely 
destroyed. : 


Who Said Unconditional? 


In recent U. S. propaganda broadcasts 
to Japan, we are saying that the Japanese 
themselves were the first ones in this war 
to demand unconditional surrender. Dur- 
ing the siege of Singapore, General Yama- 
shita told the British commander, Gen- 
eral Percival, that he would accept noth- 
ing less than unconditional surrender. 
This happened twelve months . before 
F.D.R. used the phrase in a press con- 
ference at Casablanca. Incidentally, 
Yamashita later commanded the Japanese 


armies in the Philippines defeated by - 


MacArthur. 


Close Call at Balikpapan 


It now can be disclosed that the Balik- 
papan landing worried General MacAr- 
thur and his staff more than any previous 
one in the Southwest Pacific, including 
the Philippines. The main reason was 
fear of mines, which caused some dam- 
age and gave the mine sweepers a terrific 
task. The mines were not of anese, 
but also those previously laid by the 
Dutch, Austtalians, and Americans. An- 
other difficulty arose when the delay in 
establishing land-based air support. at 
Tarakan made it necessary to bring in 
additional carriers and plan air. sweeps 
by naval planes to cover the assault, A 


(No part of this or the next page may be reproduced without written permission) 








oak ee: 





18 THE PERISCOPE 


NewswEEK, JULY 23, 1945 








further worry was the belief that the 
Japs would start huge oil fires to repel the 
landing parties, but fortunately this did 
not materialize on the scale expected. 
The landings came off better than antic- 
ipated, but there were many anxious mo- 
ments. MacArthur’s close shave when 
fired on by snipers was typical of the 
operation—it was really close. 


The Case of Tyler Kent 


Tyler Kent, former code clerk of the 
U. S. Embassy in London who was sen- 
tenced by a British court in 1940 to a 
seven-year prison term for violating the 
official secrets act, will be eligible for 
release on Oct. 1 and liable for depor- 
tation to the U. S. as a convicted alien. 
His attorneys in this country, fearing that 


the Department of Justice may file new . 


charges against him, have petitioned the 
British to let him leave voluntarily, either 
to Eire or to Argentina. The British de- 
cision has been held up pending a ruling 
by Attorney General Clark. 


California, Here Comes India 


J. R. D. Tata, leading Indian indus- 
trialist who is visiting the U. S. with a 
number of other Indian businessmen, will 


go to California soon to see Henry J. ~ 


Kaiser. He hopes Kaiser can be interested 
in providing advice on what Tata calls 
“California-izing” India—superimposing 
an industrial economy on an agricultural 
one. The Indian group sees the solution 
of many of its problems in the way Cal- 
ifornia’s economy has been changed since 
the start of the war. 


German Error 


Had the Germans combined regular 
air raids with the buzz-bomb blitz on 
London in the middle of last summer the 
effects would have been extremely seri- 
aus. By August every barrage balloon 
in London had been moved into a long 
line 20 miles east and southeast of the 
city. And almost’ all the heavy anti-air- 
craft guns were on the east and south- 
east coasts to intercept the robots over 
water. These precautions accounted for 
as high as 90% of the buzz bombs, but 
a reasonably heavy raid with planes 
would have caught London with its over- 
head defenses almost nil. 


Foreign Notes 


London sources say the Russians in 
Berlin discovered a woman assistant to 
Hitler’s dentist who identified the jaw 
of the body found in the chancellery 
courtyard as the jaw of the Fiihrer. After 
the identification the woman was flown 
to Moscow . . . The last edition of the 


Jap-edited Okinawa Daily, published in 
Naha, carried this headline: “Annihila- 
tion of Enemy at Hand” . . . Most pop- 
ular song with the Wacs in Italy is called 
“The Truman Song.” Sung to the tune of 
“Lili Marlene,” the words are: “Please 
Mr. Truman, won’t you send us home? 


First we conquered Naples, and then we 
conquered Rome!” . . . Foreign Minister 
Velloso of Brazil is expected to replace 
Carlos Martins as Ambassador to the 
U. S. Martins’s future is indefinite, but He 
is being considered for the new post of 
Brazilian Ambassador to Moscow .. . 
The first skyscraper in the Holy Land 
will. be completed by the end of the 
summer. It is a ten-story structure at 
Rishon-le-Zion for the Palestine Brewery. 





Auto Outlook 


I is expected that at seast some De- 
troit auto manufacturers will finish off 
their 1945 quotas long before the end of 
the year and then renew pressure for per- 
mission to produce more cars. They. may 
contend that thousands of workers otlhier- 
wise would have to be laid off until the 
plants are permitted to start on their 
1946 quotas. 


Evading Coffee Ceilings 


Colombia, like other Latin American 
countries supplying the U.S. coffee 
market, is smarting under Washington’s 
refusal to lift ceiling prices. In conse- 
quence, U.S. importers say some of the 
country’s authorities simply disregard 
them. They close their eyes to short 
weights which, in extreme cases, have 
reached 20 pounds in a 154-pound bag, 
thereby gaining from 50 to 60 cents a 
bag, and in some cases more than $4, 
above permissible U.S. prices. Inciden- 
tally, if Ambassador Adolf Berle has his 
way there'll be no increase in the U.S. 
price for Brazilian coffee until he is satis- 
fied that it will not be for the exclusive 
benefit of the coffee speculators. 


On the Road Again 


The WPB’s interpretation of textile 
order M-388 and its “equitable distribu- 
tion” clause has held that if garment 
makers had salesmen visit small-town 
customers in the base period, they must 
continue to do so. It is not equitable dis- 
tribution to force small retailers and oth- 
ers to make trips to New York and other 
clothing areas searching for goods. Sales- 
men, who have been largely unnecessary 
in the wartime “seller’s market,” will 
come back into their own if this interpre- 
tation holds. 


Business Footnotes 


New York Stock Exchange trading 
dropped to less than 900,000 shares 
when the Newspaper and Mail Deliver- 
ers’ Union strike tied up the New York 
newspapers which print stock lists. Dur- 
ing the week before the strike volume 
was about 2,100,000 shares a day... 
Financial circles regard Assistant Treas- 
ury Secretary Harry White as a likely 
choice for U.S. representative on the 
Bretton Woods Fund board. Edward E. 
Brown of t!.:: 'irst National Bank in Chi- 


cago is considered a candidate for U. S. 
representative with the Bank for Recon- 
struction . . . Expect other names to be 
added soon to the list of rye speculator; 
in the government’s crackdown .. . 
Naval ship repairs in 1946 are expected 
to equal in dollar volume the declining 
new ship construction program . . . Cut- 
backs in some heavy industries are pro- 
viding urgently needed workers for can- 
ning plants. In the Midwest, for instance, 
canners will pack more whole peeled 
tomatoes. Earlier schedules called for 
heavy diversion of tomatoes to juice, 
purée, and catsup. 





Radio Notes 


Tatas Ace, formerly of Easy 
Aces, has been signed to write Danny 
Kaye’s shows starting in the fall .. . 


-Popularity of news programs has taken a 


nose dive since V-E Day, according to 
surveys. Insiders do: not expect a rise un- 
til there are moré decisive developments 
in the Pacific . . . Look for several prom- 
inent network advertisers who already 
have big-time shows on NBC and CBS 
to test smaller budgeted programs on 
American and Mutual for plugging sub- 
sidiary products. Borden’s, with Ginny 


- Simms as their big act for CBS next fall, 


probably will try out a smaller show on 


the American network. 


Butler’s Successor 


Trustees of Columbia University are 
deciding on a successor to Dr. Nicholas 
Murray Butler in what can be described 
as the hard way. Each trustee brought in 
his own slate of candidates. After these 
were sorted and -duplications eliminated 
it was found that 180 names still re- 
mained. The leading candidate at the 
moment is Philip C. Jessup, Columbia 
professor of international law. Some of 
the trustees also are talking of General 
Eisenhower as a possibility, but it is not 
known whether he would accept if of- 
fered the job. i 


Book Notes ' 


Joseph Barnes, New York Herald Tri- 
bune foreign editor, has translated Kon- 
stantin, Simonoff’s “Days and Nights” for 
fall publication by Simon & Schuster. 
Based on Stalingrad’s defense,. it is re- 
garded as the best Russian novel of the 
war . . . Therell be a biography of 
George Sand next fall by Frances Win- 
war. Harper will publish it... A new 
25-cent book line is being planned to 
compete with Pocket Books . . . “Shinto, 
the Unconquered Enemy: Japan’s Doc- 
trine of Racial Superiority and World 
Conquest,” by Robert O. Ballou, will be 
launched in the fall by Viking . . . Many 
of the additions and observations incor- 
porated in H. L. Mencken’s “Supplement 
One to the American Language” came 
from readers of the Braille edition of the 
original book, “The American Language. 

















- 


U.S. a OTEL PENNSYLVANI Eee 
econ- } 8 Mik os Mae, Si" 
to be a oO 





japamac, 











ators 


ected 
lining 
, Cut- 
> pro- 
r Can- 
tance, 
reeled 
d for 


juice, 

















/ Wasn’t it wonderful, before the war, to drop into 2 But when the war started, hotels became filled to 
® Hotel Pennsylvania and get as many rooms as you * capacity with servicemen, officials, diplomats, and 
wanted ... all at a moment’s notice? No need to other people traveling on urgent war business. It got 
make reservations in advance. Large, comfortable so that when you wanted a room at Hotel Pennsyl- 


Easy rooms were always ready for you! vania you had to reserve it in advance, 


anny 


ken a 
ng to i 
se un- ' 
ments 
prom- 
ready 
| CBS ? 
Ms on é > 
z sub- ' 
Ginny 
t fall, 
Ww On 









FLOOR PLAN 

















ty are 


— 

! 
cholas Cc 
cribed e 
ght in 3 It became impossible to accommodate folks who It never reached the\point where guests had to sleep 
these * called on us without warning. Never in all hotel * in hammocks strung up in the lobbies! Even today, 
inated history were so few people called upon to serve so when you stay at Hotel Pennsylvania, you'll find 
ill re- many. And yet, in spite of all difficulties, our staff that the essential services are still being maintained 
it - pitched in and overcame a seemingly insurmount-_ . ... and so skillfully, that you'd hardly notice the 
= of able situation. 3 wartime changes! ya 
eneral : i} 
is not : ' i 
if of- 











d Tri- 
 Kon- 
ts” for 
1uster. 
is re- 
of the 
hy of 
Win- 
\ new 
ed to 
hinto, 
nae 5. What a happy day it will be when times become 
“ill be b oe — Non — — — newly deco- 
i ra lobbies, and immediately own to a com- ft, % Pi 
ni pletely redecorated room. Our postwar plans call for ee ee ee Paverne | 
ement every service and convenience you could expect ... NEEDED FOR U. S. WAR BONDS Pp 
came in addition to innovations and improvements you 


of the never dreamed of! 


” : 
uage. . 




















nen 


























Washington 








NEWSWEEK, JULY 23, 1945 


Trends 





- Looks at GHQ of 
the War Effort 


The Periscope 





The current strike wave has not shaken the War Labor Board’s 
determination to hold the wartime wage line a little longer. No 
change in basic rates will be permitted at least until the board 
has time to make a thorough study of the wage structure. This 
will take several months at best. 


The proposal to pay war workers returning to civilian produc- 
tion jobs for 48 hours even though they work only 40, thus 
compensating them for loss of overtime, has been rejected by 
the board’s public members, who hold the balance of WLB 
power. They contend that this plan would be unfair to workers 
remaining on war production jobs and would therefore tend to 
lure essential personnel away from war industry. 


The so-called bracket system under which wages in the sameé 
industry vary from one geographical section to another will be 
scrapped shortly.. The WLB will undertake to equalize wages 
on an industry-wide basis. Members explain that sectional dif- 
ferentials, necessary in wartime to prevent wholesale migra- 
tions of workers, are no longer needed. . 


Reorganization of the Labor Department and of other agencies 
dealing with labor problems is planned by Secretary Schwellen-- 
bach. His program would (1) centralize policymaking in the 
department; (2) create a central clearinghouse of information, 
also in the department, for the benefit of ‘citizens with labor 
problems; (3) eliminate overlapping functions of the depart- 
ment and of independent agencies operating in the labor field, 
even though some of these agencies will remain detached, and 
(4) save the expense of the current sprawling setup. The plan 
will go to the Budget Bureau for implementation, * 


Pending this streamlining, Schwellenbach refuses to meddle in 
any current industrial dispute. He has instructed bureau chiefs 
to proceed on their own until the new machinery is in running 
order. He won't be rushed into what he considers premature 
decisions in specific cases until his organization is ready to 
function efficiently. 


Schwellenbach’s appointments will satisfy both the CIO and 
AFL when the new Labor Department roster is complete. Both 
will get part of what they want. Incidentally, CIO chief Philip 
Murray was less outraged than generally supposed by appoint- 
ment of Carl Moran as Assistant Secretary of Labor. Schwellen- 
bach explained that Moran’s experience as an organizer was 
precisely what he needed for the immediate task of revamp- 
ing the department. 


Manufacturers are renewing their fight for early restoration of 
a free market in raw materials, Control of materials needed by 
war plants will, of course, continue through V-J. But rationing 
of leftover materials available to civilian industry is scheduled 
for discontinuance Jan. 1. Object of the current campaign is 
to advance this date to Oct. 1. 


Chairman Krug of the War Production Board sympathizes with 
the manufacturers. On the theory that reconversion will be 
hastened by business freedom, he is willing to lift controls on 
Oct. 1, if certain war-supporting industries like: transportation 
are assured an adequate supply of steel and other essential ma- 


terials. Steel-industry. spokesmen have assured him that they 
can supply all needs if the priority system is junked. 


But the Vinson office remains unconvinced. Once before it pre- 
vented the WPB from permitting a free scramble for raw ma- 
terials. At that time it feared that rivalry between buyers would 
lead to wild bidding for materials and encourage an inflation- 
ary spiral. The burden of proof will be on the WPB to show 
that this won’t happen. 


Labor lobbyists have transferred their base of operations from 
the White House to the Capitol since the death of President 
Roosevelt. They used to apply pressure to the Chief Executive 


- for anything they wanted. Now they go directly to Congress on 


the theory that government policy originates there more often 
than at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue. 


The new technique paid off this week in the recommendation 
of a Senate Education and Labor subcommittee that the War 
Labor Board make 65 cents an hour a basic nationwide wage 
minimum. Such a policy should later be written into the Fair 
Labor Standards Act, this committee held, as a safeguard 
against postwar depression. 


A labor petition calling for upward revision of the Little Steel 
formula and for restoration of full responsibility for wage policy 
to the WLB is now circulating at the Capitol. Twenty-eight 
congressmen signed the first week. Framers of the petition con- 
tend that the WLB has become the handmaiden of the Vinson 
office and other nonlabor agencies. 

e 


Civilian rail travel will get harder before it gets easier. The 
Office of Defense Transportation will soon extend the 450-mile 
minimum run on which Pullman cars may be used. Eventually 
Pullmans will be excluded from runs of less than 1,000 miles. 
And even after this is done, it may be necessary to re- 
duce drastically the number of Pullmans available, regard- 
less of distance. — - 


A priority system on Pullman travel similar to that employed in 
air travel may be the next step. This might be extended to 
long-run coach travel if things get tighter next fall, but at 
present officials hope to avoid this. Outright coupon ration- 
ing would be a last resort and is not expected because of 
difficulties of administration. 


Troop movements from Europe are ahead of schedule. The re- 
deployment plan called for the arrival of 150,000 soldiers last 
month, but more than 300,000 were landed. This month the 
plan calls for 250,000, but satual arrivals may exceed 350,000, 
The June excess of transport performance over plan was what 
forced adoption of the 450-mile Pullman ‘rule. 


Food for Europe has been missing the boats. Space available 
on troop and cargo ships going to Europe for Army personnel 
and equipment frequently has been wasted. Some of it was 
allotted to the French but unused, either because the French 
Purchasing Commission couldn’t buy the food it wanted or, 
when it tid make purchases, couldn’t get its supplies to the 
docks on time. Even so, commitments made to the French last 
April are being discharged gradually. However, the tem of 
build-up for the final phase of the Pacific war will not be slack 
ened to keep food ships operating in the Atlantic. 











4 ne ORRIN Rk ER AIR i a RI Cs ed 






Ss 






i 
——— 


it_ they 






























it pre- 
iw ma- 
- would 
flation- 
0 show 
is from THE Service men and women on the far- 
esident flung battlefronts can feel justly proud of 
aaa the wholehearted support given to them 
e often throughout the war by the people of 
Wichita. All Wichita people have fully 
, supported the war by. personal sacrifices 
ndation A 
re War and by both direct and indirect assistance, 
e wage but this tribute is especially directed to 
he Fair those who work in all the large and small 
leguard plants which together and in cooperation 
have turned out such vast quantities of 
le Steel war material. 
> policy Wichita’s war workers represent a true 
ry-eight 
a ean cross section of Kansas people. They have 
Vinson performed miracles of production. Start- 
ing with little or no jndustrial experience, 
they have applied eagerness to serve and 
or. The devotion to their jobs as a successful sub- 
50-mile stitute for experience, and have produced 
ntually a quantity of war production that has not 
) miles, been equalled on a per capita basis by the 
bone people of any other city or locality. The 
Wichita record of 18 Army-Navy “E” 
awards for excellence and 4 Maritime “M” 
oyed in awards for merit attests the outstanding 
pan : quality of their workmanship. 
oth. They have come from near and far to 
ause of lend their willing hands, strong backs, and 
active minds to the job of producing what 
The re- our Government asked us all to deliver to 
‘ers last our fighting forces. They closed up their 
nth the businesses, left their farms, and changed 
50,000, their mode of living in order to help get 
as what the job done. A recent survey shows 
that a clear majority of these folks are 
in war work because of 
vailable their desire to directly 
_o and personally contribute 
French to victory. 
ited or, : 
3 to the 
nch last 
of 
ack- 


>A SALUTE TO 
WICHITA'S WAR WORKERS 


Be ec, Aircraft 


BEECHCRAFTS ARE DOENG THEIR . Q 


The women have rendered tiuralibahie: 

service and have made a magnificent rec- 
ord of efficiency in tasks that they never 
dreamed they ever would attempt. The | 
physically handicapped people have — 
proved that their determination and cour- ~ 
age more than offset their physical dis- 
abilities. The old folks who came from ‘ 
retirement have demonstrated that they : 
too can do a full-sized job. 

Generosity in Red Cross donations, both | 
in money and blood, has characterized | 
these fine people. They have invested 
many tens of millions of dollars in war 
bonds. 

We feel that these folks are truly repre- 
sentative of Kansas people and that their 
achievements are derived from the 
Strength and the support of all Kansas » 
people. They have demonstrated that | . 
Kansans* not only can do whatever they ~ 
want to do, but also can do it quickly and 
well. With this lesson of the war before 
them, who can doubt the future greatness 
of Kansas and of Wichita? 

‘We. respectfully salute the war workers 
for the job that they have done and the 
job that they will continue to do in war %/ 
production and the peace production that |! “gp 
is to follow. 













*Of coursé all these folks are Kansans now, 
although many of them came here from other 
states, to help do the job. 





— 


WICHITA, KANSAS, U.S.A. 


BS 


ae 


motor. The head and oil pan have never even been 


removed. I’m still getting good 


asoline mileage and 


don’t use any great amount of oil. The car has always 
been on the farm and for years it has been driven 


over some of 


the worst mud roads in the township. 


But it’s still rolling right along.” 


“Plymouth Builds Great Cars” is as 
old as Plymouth. It isn’t just a sales 
slogan .. . it doesn’t just apply to 
one or a few models. The four 
wordasum up Plymouth’s manufac- 
turing policy—first, last and always. 

Year after year, Plymouths have 
been great cars because of the value 
built in, the extra usefulness to 
owners. And to make our cars even 
better, we have constantly pio- 
neered major advancements . . . set 


new standards for the low-price 
field with each new model. 

To win and hold millions of own- 
ers, Plymouth had to plan and build 
for service, This same enduring 
policy is built into guns .and tanks 
and planes today. It will be built 
into great new cars tomorrow. 
Meanwhile, Plymouth’s nation-wide 
dealer organization gives good care 
to the cars Plymouth built before 
the war. 


PLYMOUTH Division of CHRYSLER CORPORATION 


‘ 


: You'll aan “The Music of Morton Gould" Thursdays, CBS,.9 P.M., EWT 
New, in 1945, Arthur Schilling, Odell Township, IMinois, farmer, says this about his 1994 model: 


“I’ve passed the 100,000-mile mark with my 1934 
Plymouth.and have never had any work done on the 


a. 


go, Ps 


@ 7TRVE YESTERDAY —— 


PLYMOUTH 


SUS 


aUY WAR BONDS! . . TO HAVE AND TO HOLD 


/W TRUST FOR TOMORROW 











10LD 





- 


Volume XXVI Number 4 





? 





+ A WELL-INFORMED PUBLIC IS AMERICAS GREATEST SECURITY > 


Newsweek 


The Magazine of News Significance 





¢ NATIONAL AFFAIRS °* 

















America’s Midsummer Mood: 
War Weary, Restless, Irksome 


Public Talking More About 
Food and Pay Than About Pacific; 
Strikes Reflect Irritation 


One by one the crippled ships came 
limping back to California, in testimony 
to the devastation by Jap suicide at- 
tacks. They needed quick repairs but the 
huge Navy drydocks at Terminal Island 
and nearby shipyards in Los Angeles 
Harbor stood helpless: For months the 
West Coast had seen a steady exodus of 
ship workers. The wreckage piled up 
alarmingly. 

Worried manpower officials hit upon a 
job-recruiting se si Why not show the 
public the truth? Reluctant at first for se- 
curity reasons, the Navy finally agreed 
to hold open house. It urged Californians 
to see for themselves the effects of the 
Kamikaze attacks on the destroyer Zel- 
lars and the hospital ship Comfort. The 
United States Employment Service hope- 
fully set up booths. 

Over one week end 250,000 visitors 
saw the ships. But only 2,500—1 per cent 
—bothered to pause at the USES stands. 
Of those who inquired, only 600 took 
work. The other 1,900 begged off—they 
were wom out, or wanted to go fishing, 
or needed more assurance of security, or 
preferred to set up small postwar busi- 
nesses with their wartime earnings. 


On Our Minds, sly In midsum- 
mer of 1945, the California manpower 
crisis was no isolated sign of the times. 


Elsewhere in the nation the same dis- © 


turbing pattern cropped up. Over Michi- 
gan City, Ind., an Army. plane disgorged 
a bellyload of leaflets in a desperate stunt 
to attract 800 sorely needed ‘sleeper-car 
construction workers for the I Pull- 


‘man plant. Nor was the trouble merely 


with manpower. In Omaha, Nebr., 
women volunteers failed to heed a Red 
Cross call to fill July. 31 quotas of sur- 
gical a 

Viewing the national scene, govern- 


ment leaders were frankly puzzled. True, 


_ Some psychological letdown was inevi- 


table with V-E Day. But stirring events 


-Temained to challenge the natisnal con- 


science. Overseas, in Potsdam, America’s 
Chief Executive was ‘sitting down to 
chart the peace of Europe with his co- 
partners in the Big Three (see page 42). 
In the heart of government in Washing- 
ton, Congress was deep in consideration 
of Bretton Woods and the San Francisco 
charter. But if the people were roused by 
these events, they had strange ways of 
showing it. 

Complacency was perhaps too strong 
a word to describe the American mood 
last week. Certainly it did not fit the citi- 
zens of Pittsburgh and Milwaukee, of 
Brooklyn and Louisville, who had well 
exceeded set goals in the Seventh War 
Loan drive.* But upon too many millions 
—the families whose sons were heading 
home from Europe to an Army discharge, 
the women to whom the shortage of soap 
meant more than a B-29 mission out of 
Guam, the tireless procession of race- 
track. fans and night-club habitués—the 
hard, cold fact of the war still to be won 
in the Pacific lay lightly. 


The Butcher, the Baker: Topic A in 
home-front conversation last week was 
the great adventure of food-buying. 
Some civilian strategists boasted of their 





®The national record, as of July 9: Total sales 
$26,313,000,000 (goal, 814,000,000, . _ Total 
8. to individu $8,681,000,000, including 
$3,976,000,000 in E Bonds (goal: $4,000,000,000). 


































N.Y. Datly News 


Long week end: A reeord Monday crowd at Aqueduct race track, New York 


starts 





24 NATIONAL AFFAIRS 


devious maneuvers to circumvent the 
still-critical meat shortage. Chicago po- 
lice admitted that a black-market gang 
had been able to hijack food trucks and 
stores for six months by the simple de- 
vice of installing a romantic couple in a 
nearby auto; squad-car patrols would 
pass by and wink benevolently. 
‘The law-abiding found the hunt for 
food a major preoccupation. In Boston 
the queues of angry housewives grew 
longer; New England summer-table 
standbys were almost prohibitively 


priced—the first corn of the season, $1.80 ° 


a dozen ears, blueberries, up to 75 cents 
a quart. The announcement that butter 
would drop from’ 24 to 16 red points a 
pound absorbed at least as much atten- 
tion as the latest leveling of a Japa- 
nese city. 


The Holiday Maker: There was an- 
other major home-front headache: travel 
space. In Congress Rep. Hugh DeLacy, 
Washington Democrat, charged that a 
train, equipped with meat and other foods 
had been sent empty from St. Paul, Minn., 
to Tacoma, Wash., to pick up members 
of the Weyerhauser clan, Northwest lum- 
ber millionaires, for luxurious “cross- 
country joyrides.” To Washington 40 
vacationists came from Kansas City, 
Chicago, and Detroit, touring the East by 
train coach, planning to see the sights by 
bus and streetcar. ODT officials admitted 
that the group was holding to the letter, 
if not the spirit, of ODT regulations, but 
added caustically: “We hope these 
people all get a good look at Arling- 
ton Cemetery.” 








Acme 
Mascots: GlI’s arriving in Boston, sur- 
round 9-year-old Natale Piavallo, of 
Milan, Italy, who was smuggled aboard 
their transport in a barracks bag... 




















Brett—Miam! (Fla.) Herald 


There were more automobiles around. 
Highways to the Arlington Park race 
track, out of Chicago, were jammed. In 
Kentucky, Dade Park planned its fall 
meeting, starting August 2, despite an 
Office of Defense Transportation-Inter- 
state Commerce Commission ban on 
transporting race horses in common car- 
riers. Now horses travel by private van. 

In the hot-weather doldrums crime 
took its prominent place. In Media, Pa., 


44-year-old Mrs. Anne E. Dufficy was 


held for the killing of her 2%-year-old 


granddaughter “in an effort to make her 
behave.” In Peabody, Mass., 26-year-old 
Dave Horblit, a deaf-mute prize fighter, 
confessed to hammering his wife and 
daughter to death because his wife 
“didn’t love” him any more. 

The strain of coming home from the 
wars was beginning to tell on the s. 
In Louisville, a soldier from nearby 
Camp Atterbury, enraged at not finding 
a seat on a streetcar, sat on the floor, 
brandished a German ‘pistol, and ordered 


- everyone out. In St. Louis, unable to se- 


cure housing space, a discharged veteran 
threatened to go out with a machine gun 
and find some. 


Too Few, Too Many: The most dis- 
quieting home-front phenomenon, how- 
ever, was the labor situation. In Detroit, 
long lines of unemployed—total for the 
city estimated at 40, milled outside 
USES offices, some hunting jobs, others 
applying for unemployment benefits. 

Yet: elsewhere in the nation the calls 
for more war-plant workers grew more 
desperate. Rubbertown in i : 
producing .at least $5 per cent of the 
country’s synthetic rubber, was from 10 
to 25 per cent behind its 1945 schedule. 
Around Puget Sound the rate of depar- 


tures from the Boeing plant and area. 


shipyards was 4,000 a month, the rate of 
new arrivals only 3,000 a month. The 
Washington state manpower directo, 


‘50,000 men were idle throu 


NEWSWEEK 


Albert F. Hardy, admitted: “The situa- 
tion is appalling . . . It’s just like taking 
one step forward and falling back two.” 


Teo Hard-Earned a Penny: About 

oh strikes 
each day during the past few weeks. 
Causes of the strikes were almost in- 
numerable. Some were based on dis- 
agreements over contracts, others on rea- 
sons more tenuous: A St. Louis plant 
struck briefly when a Negro employe 
drew a knife on another. ° 

Behind the confusion and turmoil ot 
labor appeared some of the same irri- 
tants which were distracting the entire 
country from the war in the Pacific: fear 
of failure to gain postwar security before 
victory and the inevitable, sweeping lay- 
offs; fat savings accounts; war-weariness. 
Conciliation officials in the Labor De- 
partment put it this way: 

“Workers in war plants have had their 
noses to the grindstone for three or four 
years now. Many have been forgoing \a- 
cations, working overtime, sacrificing 


home life. They are told that continued 


work is necessary to win the war against 
Japan, but they see war plants closing 
down, and in plants where war produc- 
tion is still going on, sharp cutbacks in 
contracts. . 

' “They get a feeling of restlessness, an 
urge for change. They want to blow off 
steam. They become subject to the slight- 


~ est provocation from the boss. They are 


easy victims to disruptive local union 
leaders . . . They are equally easy victims 
of employers who want to provoke strikes 
for their own postwar purposes.” 








as Internationa) 
... Natale was detained by Immigration 
officials, but this spotted pup ‘has better 
luck as his doughfoot owner hurries him 
unceremoniously ashore at New York. 


-— =f oe Te ee oe nn ee ee ie ee ee: oe eee OO CS. 











‘ing 
ued 
inst 
ing 
uc- 
; in 


an 

off 
ght- 

are 
Mion 
ims 
ikes 


al 











Jury 23,1945 
—————_—_—EEE 


Cold Feet, Hot Cash 


The Treasury’s drive to collect $1,000,- 
000,000 in evaded income taxes was hit- 
ting the big-money cheats at both ends 
last week: They had cold feet and sud- 
den hot memories of vast sums over- 
looked in the excitement of counting war- 
time profits. Where consciences had 
failed, the threat of criminal prosecution 
sounded by Secretary Henry Morgen- 
thau Jr. before his resignation (NEws- 
WEEK, June 11) was showing unexpected 
and pleasing <results. 

But complete attainment of the goal 
was still distant. “There is no end of 
evasion,” Morgenthau told a press con- 
ference. “The more we go into it the 
more shocking we find it.” 











Now You See It: Under Section 55 of 
the Internal Revenue Code which makes 
a secret of “whether the taxpayer is in 
difficulty or not,” Morgenthau could not 
disclose the identities of the tax dodgers. 
But he could cite cases and he did: 
¢ A Wisconsin firm of war contractors is 
believed to have evaded taxes on $5,000,- 
000 profits by suppressing sales reports, 
padding payrolls, and diverting money to 
private accounts. In one instance, firm 
materials and manpower were used to 
build a private home for a company of- 
ficer. The case will shortly go before a 
Federal grand jury. 

@ A manufacturer with a subcontract for 
the boxes Purple Heart Medals come in 
reported a loss on his last fiscal year and 
filed a claim for a.carry back against tax- 
able net income from the previous years. 
When inquiry indicated the firm had ac- 
tually made a profit, the company presi- 
dent admitted of sales had been 


' concealed. So far $80,000 has been lo- 


cated in nine or ten banks. 

@ A New York drug distributor has of- 
fered $50,000 to settle his tax debt and 
penalties for failure to pay up. 

@ A New York dealer in women’s cloth- 


ing is also seeking to settle his tax cheat |. 


for $200,000 in taxes and penalties. 


@In Providence, R.I., contempt pro- 


ceedings. were brought against a jeweler ~ 
who clai his records had been lost ~ 
in a robbery. 2 


Eat, ‘Drink, and Pay: Though Mor- - 
genthau declined to identify the New 


York restaurant owner who, he said, had 


“overlooked” paying imcome taxes on - 


$2,200,000 he had put away in several 
safety deposit boxes, The New York 
Daily News showed. no such restraint. 

e man, said The News, was Henry 


Lustig, wealthy operator of the string of . 


twelve expensive Lon 
rants. (Iced coffee, 
cents; ice cream, 50 cents). For three 


champs Restau- 


years, The News declared, Lustig butfit : 


up his cozy little reserve fund by .with- 
drawing varying amounts daily and tak- 
ing it away in an armored car. Two of 
the restaurants frequently yielded 


~~ $1,000 each on a good day. Withdrawals 


cents; peas, 60 — 








DEW MELON... govt : pa 
TIATED BLUEBERRIES with Croom ........ 7s 
FRESH PEACHES ............. webibrateals cds 60 
re SIZZLING 
Hamanuryes Steak 
Longe am 
e BROILED | CHOP! ‘=D FI MIGNON, 
ushreoms Sau 
Fresh Spinach, 
Mashed Petatece 
Ms 1.45 
‘There to ne compromise with quality at Lengchampe 








up, Cream .....4 Cocos or Chocolate, Cup. 30 

p (Pot)... ..... 20 Instant Postum, Kaffee-Hag 

le svdead 25 or Sanka Coffee, Pot . 38 
fer-One ........ 2s Fresh Orangeade ........ & 
Mitk 20 Fresh Lemonade ........0 Cy 
Teer Tee 20 =—- Frosted Chocolate . to 

os cwetanccioue 4 leed Chocolate, Glass 38 
Po? . 35 leed Coffee, Pot - % 


OPEN ALL NICHT 
SON AVENUE sr 59O™/TREET 








Longchamps’ lush prices and lush atmosphere yield big profits for Lustig 


were covered by using two sets of books. 

The Treasury agents discovered the 
big hoard during an investigation of 
black marketers. Banks were reporting 
firms which consistently changed smuall 
bills into large ones. The restaurant 
chain’s books’ were examined. Agents 
quickly noted one thing: In some cases 
where the chain paid rents on a_ per- 
centage of the gross business, rentals far 
exceeded the amounts which would have 
been paid on thé gross business shown. 

At this point the chain’s lawyer ap- 
proached the New York Collector of In- 
ternal Revenue ahd offered a voluntary 


. payment of the full tax on the gated 


money, it had been held out as 


a reserve fu d for supplies (Lustig insist- 


ed the tax investigation “was request- 
ed”). The.offer of settlement was sohised. 





Harris & 
Hiram Johnson casts a lonely ‘No’ 














Graphic House 


Charter: Only One Nay 


Lying in a chair in the Senate barber- 
shop with a towel over his face, old 
Hiram Johnson of California sent for the 
clerk of the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee and murmured a few words 
in his ear. Speedily the clerk made his 
way back to Foreign Relations Chairman 
Tom Connally and the informal press 
conference he was holding. He whis- 
pered. Connally turned to reporters: 

“Senator Johnson says no.” 

Thus_last Saturday the hardy isola- 
tionist from the West announced that 


phoned in his yes, and Henrik. Shipstead 
of Minnesota, who was en route from 
home). 

Begun and ended in five speedy days— 
half the allotted time—the hearings were 


remarkable in another respect as well: 


Out of them the charter had come un- 
scathed by so much as one reservation 
or amendment. At the same point on its 
parliamentary path, the League cove- 
nant was staggering under four reserva- 
tions and 38 amendments. 


The Sages: The hearings opened at 
10:34 a.m. Monday with ex-Secretary of 
State Edward R. Stettinius Jr. and ended 
at 4:08 p.m. Friday with John Foster 
Dulles, foreign-policy adviser to Thom- 
as E. Dewey in 1944. Both strongly en- 











26 NATIONAL AFFAIRS 





dorsed the charter, but Dulles raised the 
specter of conflict: should the decision as 
to where and what armed force the 
United States would send to fight aggres- 
sion rest with the Senate, under its 
treaty-making prerogative, or with both 
houses of Congress, under an enabling 
act defining the American delegate’s pow- 
ers? Dulles believed the first, Administra- 
tion leaders the second, on the ground 
that a majority vote in both houses would 
be easier to get than a two-thirds Senate 
vote every time the question of the use 
of forces arose. 

For the charter, the impressive array 
of witnesses included Leo Pasvolsky, 
Russian-born State Department expert, 
who spent more time on the stand than 
any other individual; former Sen. Robert 
Owen of Oklahoma (1907-25), now 89 
and blind, who dramatically recalled his 
days as a staunch Wilsonian and put into 
the record his 1917 Senate resolution for 
a world peace organization; and Norman 
Thomas, Socialist leader, who frankly ad- 
mitted his support of the charter only on 
the grounds that “it may be better than 
nothing.” 

. But what made the hearings the best 

Washington show of the week and daily 
packed the 300 seats in the huge, marble- 
pillared caucus room was the opposition 
—largely women—who contended that the 
charter was unconstitutional, immoral, 

and a sellout to Britain or Russia. 


The Shouters: Among the noteworthy: 
@ David Darrin of Washington, loaded 
with bundles of exhibits accumulated 








NEWSWEEK 


Na 





over the past twenty years (which he 
vainly tried to get the committee to 
promise to publish), spoke for the United 
Nations of the Earth, an organization 
which he admitted had only one mem- 
ber—himself. He called the charter “a 
complete journey in the wrong direction 
with a one-way ticket.” When he fin- 
ished, Connally gravely reminded him: “I 
hope you will report to your association.” 
@ Agnes Waters, a Capitol Hill peren- 
nial, spoke for the National Blue Star 
Mothers. She described the charter as 
“an international conspiracy to make of 
this nation a feeding trough for the ‘have- 
nots’ of the world” and shouted that the 
“real war criminals are in this room— 
Stettinius, Pasvolsky, and Molotoff.” Go- 


ing past her allotted fifteen minutes, Mrs. 


Waters had to be dragged away from the 
stand after Connally’s gavel outpounded 
her yells. 

@ Mrs. Helen V. Somers of Philadelphia 
spoke for herself, “the government, and 
the people of the United States.” (Con- 
nally’s comment: “That’s good represen- 
tation—go ahead.”) Mrs. Somers waved 
an American flag whose stripes had been 
replaced by the Union Jack and called 
the charter a plan to return us to the 


British Empire and make the Duke. of | 


Windsor king of the world. 


@ Mrs. Florence H. Griesel of Chicago,: 


stout representative of the Women’s 
League for Political Education, “Instead 
of laboring so hard down in San Francis- 
co with all these foreigners eating our 
scarce food, why haven’t you worked for 
a negotiated peace with Japan? We 








Acme 


Light Humor: Ashore or afloat, Thurman Arnold likes his pipe. Here, the mo- 
nopoly fighter who recently resigned as a judge of the United States Court of Ap- 
peals in Washington, takes his watery ease as he gets a light from the new Attorney 
General, Tom Clark, at an outing of Cabinet members and congressmen in Maryland. 


— 


used to call them’ the nice little people 
and admire their beautiful cherry blos- 
soms in Washington.” 


Six Against the World? Just 26 min- 
utes after the last witness. had been 
heard, the committee announced its 
vote. The charter’s next move is to the 
Senate floor. There it is scheduled to be 
taken up July 23 after (Administration 
leaders hope) the Senate passes the im- 
plementing Bretton Woods legislation al- 
ready approved by the House.”* Oppo- 
nents of Bretton Woods, led by Robert 
A. Taft, Ohio Republican, wanted to 
put off considering it until fall. 

Viewing the thus-far smooth sailing of 
the charter, Senator Connally changed 
an earlier prophecy that the charter op- 
position would marshal no more than 
ten votes. Optimistically the Texan re- 
vised the prediction downward to six. 


Por = 


The Patient Lived 


Little in money was involved; much in 
principle. President Truman wanted the 
Fair Employment Practice Committee to 
continue to ferret out discrimination in 
the employment of Negroes and _ other 
minorities. He asked $599,000 so that 
the agency could carry on another year 
But Southern members of Congress, stub- 
bornly opposed to any appropriation at 
all, so tangled parliamentary proceedings 
that life or death for the FEPC remained 
doubtful for weeks. 

Last week the strength of FEPC sup- 
porters and the persuasion of Congres- 
sional leaders finally wore down the 
Southern bloc. The FEPC was voted 
$250,000 which it could use either to 
liquidate or continue its regular func- 
tions. Counting on President Truman's 
firm support, the FEPC gave no sign 
of liquidating. 


eon 


Better Tell Your Husband 


The judge’s ruling touched off feverish 
argument wherever’ servicemen had a 
chance to shoot the breeze. In Columbus, 
Ohio, Common Pleas Judge C. P. Mc- 
Clelland, placing four illegitimate chil- 
dren for adoption, had held it was not 
necessary to notify absent servicemen of 
their wives’ unfaithfulness at home 
(NEWSWEEK, July 2). 

Official reaction was quick. The Ohio 


_ legislature pushed through a bill requir- 


ing that husbands and/or wives be noti- 
fied by the state’s courts when one or the 
other becomes the parent of an illegiti- 
mate child and seeks to place it for adop- 
tion. Last week Gov. Frank Lausche 


_ signed the anti-concealment bill and it 


became a law for philandering service 
wives to think about. 


a 





©The Honse last week began its exodus for the 
longest vacitivu Congress has had since the war be- 
gan. a a istencies, the holiday will last until 














'SWEEK 


icencimeeee | 





people 
los- 


6 min- 
1 been 
ed its 
to the 
1 to be 
stration 
the im- 
tion al- 
Oppo- 
Robert 
ited to 


iling of 
hanged 
ter op- 
e than 
kan re- 
to six. 


wuch in 
ted the 
ittee to 
tion in 
1 other 
30. that 
x year 
s, stub- 
tion at 
ceedings 
mained 


C sup- 
ongres- 
vn the 

voted 
ther to 
+ func- 
‘uman’s 
10 sign 


id 
everish 
had a 
umbus, 
P. Mc- 
re chil- 
vas not 
men of 
home 


e Ohio 
requir- 
ye noti- 
> or the 
illegiti- 
r adop- 
sausche 
and it 
service 





s for the 
p war 
last until 





~~ disci 


——— 


Iriy 23, 19 2 ee 








a 


Another Beer, Biddle 


Pilea he Sa no ee name 
than Bi Rich, distinguished, 

Biddles. have been: bankers; . oe 
brokers, and warriors for more than 250 
vears. Currently 78 Biddles~ are listed in 
the Philadelphia Social Register. But 
there‘are many more: In 1931 ata fmily 
reunion at the Historical 
Society rooms in Locust 
Street, 300 appeared with 
roper 

é Last week ‘the name | 
but not the heritage fell: 
by judicial order on two 
eager Quaker City non-» 
Biddles: Abraham Bitle, 
Russian-born bartender, 
and his wife, Celie. 
Plagued. by misspellings 
and mispronounciations of 
their own: name. (common- 
est mispronounciation; - 
Beetle), they had asked . 
for a change . of Bitle ‘to. 
Biddle. Some Biddles op- 
posed’ them.. But Judge 
Eugene Alessandroni saw 
no legal reason to deny 


the application. 

“While we find much to 
admire in the loyalty to 
an honorable family name 
and tradition,” he ruled, 
“we cannot acknowledge 
to the objector such a pro- 
prietary interest in his family name as 
to prohibit a change.” 

Henceforth even Philadelphians low on 
the social scale would be served their 
drinks by a Biddle. 


Saal 


Seven by the Rope 


The procendios swere: brief: and. ter- 
ible. The kangaroo court of 200 German 
prisoners assembled in. the mess hall of 


_ the Tonkawa, Okla., camp on the night 


of Nov. 4; meee Ss - Walter Beyer , Nazi 
zealot, presen arp an un- 
signed ee note in German script 
and a letter written by Johannes Kunze, 
one of the prisoners, to his wife in Ger- 
many. The handwritings looked ‘similar. 

“There is a traitor among us,” Beyer 
snapped. Kunze cowered and cried out 
his innocence. Swearing and ‘shouting, 
the others fell on him and beat him to 
death with milk bottles and kitchen 
crockery. 


For a Life: At five minutes past mid- 
night July 10, S oe va Beyer, 32, late 
of Rommel’s Korps, stolidly lis- 
tened as the commanding officer, Col. 
W. S. Eley, seed his sath vrarvant in the 
ary barracks at Fort Leaven- 
Kan; An. interpreter asked one 






e question: Did Beyer wish to make a 
» statement. “I can't see why this should 
be done to me,” ‘he blurted.” ~~ 


His stubble-covered cliceks were drawn 

















and his eyes: shifted nervously, -but his 


chin was firm. He wore black breeches, 


black puttees, a khaki jacket, and a cloth 
cap. An MP removed the cap and placed 
a black hood over the prisoner’s head. At 
the command, “Right face! Forward, 
march,” Beyer pivoted and _ strode for- 
ward with eight soldiers. At seven min- 
utes past midnight, his body dropped 





The newest Philadelphia Biddle follows an ancient business 


through the trap of the gallows set up in 
the barracks’ old warehouse building. 

Four other Nazis followed: Staff Sgt. 
Berthold Seidel, 30; Sgt. Hans Demme, 
23; Sgt. Hans Schomer, 27; and Cpl. 
Willi Scholz, 22. Like Beyer they had 
been part of Rommel’s army; like him 
they were defiant to the end. 

Convicted Jan. 25, 1944, by a court- 
martial at Camp Gruber, Okla., the five 
were the first prisoners of war ever exe- 
cuted in this country. 

One note of irony emerged: Had the 


- war lasted, another two weeks, the five 


probably would be alive today. Negotia- 
tions for their exchange for five American 
officers under sentence of death in Ger- 
many were proceeding when the German 
surrender.came. The five Americans were 
liberated by the advancing armies. 


‘We Beg to Appeal... ‘Three 
months ago, the five men were informed 
they could appeal for clemency to the 
President. Two were willing to ask for 
their lives, but Beyer’s leadership was too 
rigid. “You are German soldiers,” he said. 
“I will not allow you to crawl before the 
enemy.” 

In another case, Sgt. Erich Gauss, 32, 


and Pvt: Rudolf Straub, 39, felt no such © 
~ constraint. Convicted of killing Horst 


Giinther, a fellow prisoner, at Aiken, 
S. C., on April 5, 1944, because he di- 
vided food “unfairly” between Americans 
and German prisoners, they appealed to 
the late President Roosevelt on last Feb. 


Sane Sean SESE eas 


NATIONAL AFFAIRS _ 27 


8 to spare their lives. The ap was 
denied .and last week they, too peal We 
hanged at Fort Leavenworth. 


oo 


was 
- With bare legs curled under her, film 


actress Faye Emerson Roosevelt sipped a 


frosty drink in her suite at 
the Waldorf-Astoria. She 
had an extra drink waiting 
for her husband, Brig. Gen. 
Elliott Roosevelt, who 
‘buzzed into and around 
New York last week for a 
series of business appoint- 
meets Faye frowned; “He 

retty tired. Tired with 
a lot of things. I was so 
happy and everything has 
been happy — except the 
beating Elliott is taking 
now.” 

Down from the Roose- 
velt home at Hyde Park, 
Faye confessed uncer- 
tainty about her future 
plans and Elliott’s: “While 
my contract with Warners 
has two years to run, I can 
say definitely that my fu- 
ture depends upon what 
happens to Elliott. And 

what happens to Elliott is 
in the lap of the gods.” 

What will happen to 
Elliott became a larger and more intri- 
guing question than ever. At the week 
end, Chairman Robert L. Doughton of the 
House Ways and Means Committee an- 
nounced that Treasury investigators were 
digging beyond the $200,000 loan to 

Elliott by the Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. 

president, John Hartford. Doughton said: 

“The investigators are checking on all 
loans [to Elliott]. Their inquiry has taken 
them to Chicago and New York and 
other places in the country.” 


Brother, Can You Spare: Tales of big 
loans to Elliott and meager settlements 
($4,000 wiped the Hartford_loan off the 
books) popped up and down. Stories 
from Washington, giving no source ex- 
cept “Congressional quarters,” said the 
loans “might” reach up to $800,000. But 
this was wishful guesswork; the hard 


Newsweek 


facts were still to be heard from. 


Doughton said the Treasury men had 
run into several snags in their effort to 
unravel young Roosevelt’s finances but 
that he aon d their findings to be re- 


A brand-new angle dev on the 
Hartford loan: It was that 
when former _Cotmmerce 











28 NATIONAL AFFAIRS 














t 


International 
Faye looks toward Elliott 





his finances. He said he wanted to get 
back to the war. “I have applied for duty 
in the Pacific. I hope I get it. I want to 
see the show out. But, of course, it is up 
to the War Department. If it doesn’t see 
eye to eye with me on Pacific duty, I'll 
apply for a discharge.” 

The War Department appeared to be 
in no hurry to reassign him. At the Pen- 
tagon Building they are exceedingly wary 
of soldiers who get noncombat mention 
on the front pages. 





*Elliott’ Roosevelt, who rose from captain to his 
present rank of brigadier general, accumulated 278 

ints in his five years soldiering. He made 67 
ight missions as a pilot and has 478 hours of 
combat duty. 





Elliott looks toward the Facific 


Hannegan Hay Day 
It was a good hot-weather story about 
an old enemy in bloody-nose St. Louis 


politics. Last week, The St. Louis Post- 
Dispatch first-paged it this way: 


HANNEGAN SHARES 
IN TWO CONCERNS; 
MAY START A THIRD 


The Post-Dispatch was at a task which 
has always delighted it: dogging the heels 
of 42-year-old Robert E. Hannegan, who 
fleet-footed his way from St. Louis ward 
politics to Postmaster General of the 
United States. By way of indicating that 
not all of Hannegan’s time and thinking 
was being devoted to running the Post 
Office Department, The Post-Dispatch 
told what it had “learned”: 

@ That. Hannegan might become a part- 
ner in a St. Louis distributor’s agency for 
Willys-Overland Motors, Inc. Miles P. 
Dyer, politician and former Missouri State 
senator, was quoted: “If I take it [the 
agency] Hannegan will be associated 
with me but it hasn’t been decided yet.” 
@ That Hannegan, according to Earle A. 
Meyer, president of the B-1 (soda water) 
Beverage Co. of St. Louis, had obtained 


the franchise to sell B-1 in greater New ° 


York. His partner was identified by 
Meyer as Toots Shor, the New York res- 
taurant owner, friend of Frank Sinatra 
and chum of Hannegan. 

@ That Mrs. Hannegan (the former Irma 
Protzmann of St. Louis) was one of the 
principal stockholders in the St. Louis 
Finance Co., organized to finance auto- 
mobile purchases as soon as new cars 
become available. Authority for this in- 
formation was a St. Louis auto dealer, 
Frederick Riesmeyer, who said he, too, 
was a stockholder. The finance company 
has not started to do business. 


For the Family: Having had its say 
for a full column, The Post-Dispatch hur- 
ried-a Washington correspondent to Han- 
negan, still getting settled in his new of- 
fices at the Post Office Department. Han- 
negan was as unruffled as a Supreme 
Court Justice. Sure, he had been seeking 
investments in an effort to make up the 
salary loss when he gave up his law prac- 
tice to take his $15,000-a-year job in the 
Cabinet. Hannegan explained: 

‘ “T have a large and expensive family.* 
I gave up a large income from my law 
business, and this is the way I have 
sought to restore my income to the level 
to which my family is accustomed.” 

But The Post-Dispatch’s facts, Hanne- 
gan said, were not exactly that. His wife 
had made an investment in the finance 
company. There had been only informal 
discussion of putting money into the 


‘Willys-Overland agency, if it material- 


izes; a Toots Shor partnership in the sale 
of B-1 would come after the war-(when 





®Mrs, Hannes..n: Patricia, 14; Robert, 11; Wil- 
liam, 10; S25 ers 


NEWSWEEK, JuLy 23, 1945 








Toots: A postwar partner (maybe) 


sugar is available for the soda), if ever. 

By the week end, The Post-Dispatch 
had settled down to waiting until next 
time. And there’s always a next time 
where The Post-Dispatch and Hannegan 
are concerned, 


Por 


The Great OWI Desert 


Omaha’s wrath knew no bounds. In 
America Illustrated, an Office of War 


_ Information magazine explaining Amer- 


ica in Russian to the Russians, the Ne- 
braska city found this so-called portrait 
of “prairie land”—its own state, Kansas, 





Associated Press Photos 
Hamnegan: Investments needed 














piety, (Fb A 
. af wi 


TT IO 


Home-made Oasis 


N A SIZZLING summer day, 
you can make your terrace 
or porch a very pleasant oasis. 


To accomplish this, merely serve 
tall, frosted Mint Juleps ...made 
with that smooth and distinctively 
different whiskey — Four Roses. 


Four Roses is still the same great 
whiskey today as it was before the 
war. It’s a combination of specially 
distilled whiskies — selected to 


achieve the magnificent flavor 
found only in Four Roses. 


Free Recipe Book 


To help you make Mint Juleps— 
and other mixed drinks—very much 
on the special side, we'll send you, 
free, the handsome new Four Roses 
recipe book. Write: Frankfort Dis- 
tillers Corporation, Dept. 40, 500 
Fifth Avenue, New York 18, N.Y. 


FOUR 
ROSES 


The same great whiskey” 
today as before the war 


e 7m e 
“ A blend of straight whiskies —-90 


proof. Frankfort Distillers Core 
poration, New York. 













g 


- >< DAL , that 
F ae PF Ly J 4 rw, ~ hae ‘ 

SS SEDAN IQ04.-10 HORSEPOWER _ 
i Fe 3 Cadillac put a lot of power into a single cylinder arid | 
forty-odd years ago — 10 horsepower; to be exact. And in a 
1904, an outstanding motor oil was developed to merc 

improve engine performance. It did! that 
That’s why so many early motorists wit 

‘ erty- 
remember the name — Havoline. econc 
brask 
writt 

had 


TODAY - 150 HORSEPOWER 


Having made a fine car with a one-cylinder engine, 

Cadillac went on to produce America’s first “V-8” — 
forerunner of the great 150 horsepower Cadillac we 
know today. Since 1904, developments equally 
revolutionary, though less visible to the 
eye, have made Insulated Havoline 
Motor Oil equally a leader. 





Why HAVOLINE is Best for Your Car Today = de 











Let 41 years of motor oil improve- _de-waxing, “insulation” against ex- a 
ments give you more power, more — tremeheatorcold, and other impor- a3 
gasoline mileage, easier starting, tant advantages combined in the ie 
longer battery life, a cleaner mo- _Havoline you get today at Texaco 348 
tor. These benefits were made pos- Dealers. Change to Havoline — c] 
sible by 100% distillation, solvent and lengthen your motor’s life. _ 
] 

G Don't miss the TEXACO STAR THEATRE on Sunday nights with JAMES MELTON it . ae FB 
‘and famous guest stars. See your newspaper for time and station. i H, Vol NE on 

| MOTOR , _ 
Grote welcome a TEXACO DEALERS niacin cr 











NEWSWEEK, JuLy 23, 1945 








North and South Dakota, Wyoming, 
Montana, Colorado, and Utah: 

“The people are almost exclusively 
farmers. Livestock raising is carried on 
only in the mountainous parts of Mon- 
tana and Wyoming. Industry is almost 
nonexistent . . . The rich natural re- 
sources Of the region are as yet un- 
touched . . . It sometimes happens 
that a drought lasts for ten years 
... The agronomists are working hard 


‘to find new plants suitable for this 


arid land.” 

As blood pressures mounted in the 
Midwest, the Omaha Chamber. of Com- 
merce took direct action. It demanded 
that Elmer Davis, OWI chief, retract 
the picture of a “drought-stricken, pov- 
erty-ridden territory with little hope of 
economic salvation.” Obviously, the Ne- 
braskans snapped, ‘the article had been 
written by a ated of bureaucrats who 
had never been west of Washington. 


We Rise to Object: The complaints 
called these items of regional pride to 
the attention of OWI writers: (1) The 
“arid” land was America’s breadbasket; 
(2) though there had been years of 
drought, this year there had been too 
much rain; (8) livestock raising was car- 
ried on almost everywhere in the area 
except the mountainous parts of Mon- 
tana and Wyoming; (4) as for natural 
resources, the Midwest had the largest 
gold and copper mines in the world; 
and (5) as for “nonexistent industry,” 
it had shipyards, plane plants, and a 
thriving. lumber trade, and, the final 
irony, an Omaha packing plant was one 
of four in the country supplying the 
Russians with their favorite Lend-Lease 
dish: tushonka (a canned pork and 
beef combination). . 


Pe 


Crime: It’s Worse 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation 
reported last week on the conduct of the 
nation’s wartime. stay-at-homes. It was 
bad—worse, said the wry FBI, than at 
any time in its busy history. During the 
1945 fiscal year: (ended June 30) inves- 
tigations by G-men reached an_ all-time 
high of 18,813. 
The FBI's records showed: 
@ Bank-robbery convictions up to 53. 
€ Interstate-commerce theft convictions 
up to 1,426, double the 668 of 1944. 
@ Thefts of government property up to 
1,815 convictions compared with 1,143 
in 1944; 634 in 1943. 
@ Frauds against the government up to 
348 convictions with 235 in 1944. 
@ Frauds in  servicemen’s allotments 
more than double last year’s figure (215 
convictions in 1945; only 83 in 1944). 
But there was one bright 


FBI reported it had 97,497,563 sets of 
fingerprints in its files, an increase of 
7,454,366 during the year—an effective 
weapon in J. Edgar Hoover's war against 
crime among the stay-at-homes. 


NATIONAL AFFAIRS 31 





spot: The - 





WASHINGTON TIDES 





Assignment to Trouble 


by ERNEST K. LINDLEY 


In many ways Secretary of Labor 
Schwellenbach has the least enviable 
job in the new Cabinet. Labor strife is 
increasing. Even if it should subside 
temporarily, everything indicates that 
when the war ends it will flare up 
furiously on all sides. It should be 
Schwellenbach’s job to try to curb the 
turmoil and bring order out 
of it. No Secretary of Labor 
has had a surer prospect 
than his of serious trouble. 
Yet he has no tools with 
which to work. He does not 
even have any policies. For 

“nearly all the government 
agencies which make or ad- 
minister labor policy lie out- 
side the . Department of 
Labor. 

But President Truman did 
not appoint Schwellenbach to be a 
figurehead. Schwellenbach does not 
intend to be one. His mission is to 
revitalize the Labor Department and 
to assume the major responsibility for 
formulating-and administering the Ad- 
ministration’s labor policies. This is a 
challenging assignment. Its fulfillment 
will demand a mixture of refiection, 
circumspection, practical _ political 
skill, and outright courage. 


Provided that his true situation 
and his mission are understood, it is, 
however, an advantage to Schwellen- 
bach to be able to sit on the sidelines 
awhile. If he were in the thick of the 
game he would not have time to sur- 
vey his problem as a whole. He would 
have to improvise. He would instantly 
become involved in controversies. 

If Schwellenbach had entered the 
Department of Labor with a detailed 
set of preconceived ideas, good or bad, 
he might have been able to risk im- 
mediate embroilment in day-to-day 
difficulties. But he brought no specific 
program with him. For four and a half 
years he had been sitting on a Federal 
bench far away from the Capital.. He 
had never expected tg be Secretary of 
Labor. He needs time to study and 
think. He can get it by standing on the 
letter of his official impotence until he 
has made up his mind about his pro- 

* gram. That is what he is trying to do. 
He has consulted with a good many 
people, including most of the impor- 
tant labor leaders, but he has refused 
to be drawn into the consideration of 
day-to-day problems which legally lie 
outside his hollow domain. 


} Schwellenbach’s third task, which 





may be of long duration, is to develop 
a program for further legislation. 
There is certain to be a strong popular 
demand for legislation along at least 
two lines: (1) peaceful settlement of 
industrial disputes and (2) regulation 
of unions and union practices. 

Outside the railroad industry, there 
is not much Federal ma- 
chinery for handling labor 
disputes in peacetime. The 
National Labor Relations 
Board protects unions 
against certain unfair prac- 
tices by employers and de- 
termines, when necessary 
by election, who is to repre- 
sent employes in collective 
pengaining, The conciliation 
service of the Department 
of Labor is available to com- 
se disputes. Except in union circles, 


ew people would contend that this 


machinery is adequate. 

Under Roosevelt, unionism became 
solidly established. It will not be dis- 
established after the war. But like 
every other institution which attains 
great power, it will be subjected to 
some form of governmental check. In 
what degree will depend largely on 
the extent to which the unions restrain 
and police themselves. There is al- 
ready, however, a strong current of 
public support for something like the 
Ball-Burton-Hatch Bill—for the defi- 
nition and outlawing of unfair prac- 
tices by unions as well as by employ- 
ers and for the more extensive use of 
conciliation, mediation; and _arbitra- 
tion. It will widen and deepen with 
every strike that. seriously incon- 
veniences the public. 


Up to the present, the only re- 
action to such a proposal from union 
leadership has been more or less out- 
raged opposition. This is almost. cer- 
tain to be as ineffectual as was the op- 
position to the ame and security 
and exchange reforms of the early ’30s. 

Schwellenbach can make the De- 
partment of Labor’ an undiscerning 
champion of the union viewpoint, 
which is what some union leaders ap- 
parently think it should be. Or he can 
be a discriminating friend, who will 
try to harmonize labor’s interests with 
those of the public and try to guide 
the legislation which is coming into 
sound channels. The second role is the 
one which Truman appointed him to 
fill, which he wants to fill, and which 
he is fitted to fill. fs 














82 NATIONAL AFFAIRS 





* - FROM THE CAPITAL * 











Men Around Byrnes 


When Edward R. Stettinius Jr. became 
Secretary of State he brought with him a 
carefully selected and impressive team of 
six assistant secretaries. When James F. 
Byrnes succeeded Stettinius he brought a 
team too, but such an ill-assorted and in- 
formal one that even its own members 
don’t quite know what their titles are or 
what positions they will play. The dif- 
ference in these two teams tells some- 
thing about the difference between the 
outgoing and incoming Secretaries—Stet- 
tinius, the methodical executive, an 
Byrnes, the improvising moderator. 


Policy by Cohen: Top man on the 
Byrnes team is Benjamin V. Cohen, son 
of an Indiana junk dealer, once famous as 
the unseen member of the fabulous team 
of Corcoran and Cohen, now revered in 
Washington as a unique public servant— 
on the basis of selflessness. He was one 
of the few advisers who accompanied 
President Truman and Secretary Geer 
aboard the cruiser Augusta when they 
sailed for Germany. He is slated to be 
counselor of the State Department, a 
position which has remained vacant since 
the death of R. Walton Moore, friend 
and adviser to former Secretary Cordell 
Hull. Whatever title he finally gets, he 
is sure to be one of the men who for- 
mulates American foreign policy as long 
as Byrnes is responsible for it. 

Middle-aged and bespectacled, an owl- 
ishly wise bachelor, Cohen came to the 
New Deal via Felix Frankfurter’s clear- 
ing house at Harvard Law School. He 
has held a number of government posi- 
tions, most of them having little connec- 
tion with his real duties as Roosevelt 
legislative draftsman in the early days of 
the New Deal and legalistic handyman 
_ to war agencies since Pearl Harbor. For 
a brief interval he served as adviser to 
Ambassador John G. Winant in England. 
His last position before going to the State 
Department was counsel to Byrnes’s Of- 
fice of War Mobilization and Reconver- 
sion. But he resigned that in protest 
against President Roosevelt’s failure to 
give him a State Department assignment, 
the one thing he had ever wanted for 
himself, when the Stettinius team was 
chosen. Recently he has been serving at 
OWMR without pay—a luxury he can 
afford because he made a small fortune 
in private practice before coming to 
Washington. 

Just what Cohen’s influence will mean 
in terms of State Department policy can’t 
be foretold. He is inclined to. be sympa- 
thetic with the aspirations of the French 
to rebuild their empire. He favors a hard 
peace for Germany but not a vindictive 
peace or one that calls for indefinite sus- 
pension of German political life. Although 
tolerant of Soviet Russia, he-was-one of 


the American experts who held out most 
stubbornly at~Dumbarton Oaks against 
the all-embracing veto provisions advo- 
cated by the Russians. 


The Spartanburg Statesmen: Second 
to Cohen on the Byrnes team, and per- 
haps equally influential, is Donald Rus- 
Sell, a quick-witted lawyer from Spartan- 
burg, S.C. He will probably become a 
special assistant to Byrnes. Like Cohen, 
he is indifferent to titles and pay. Exten- 
sive business interests in South Carolina 


~ 





oi 


Byrnes’s aces: Cohen (seated) and Russell. 


derive from his running start, after takin 
his law degree at the University of Sou 
Carolina and postgraduate training at the 
University of Michigan, as a junior mem- 
ber of Byrnes’s law firm. 

Like Byrnes himself, Russell is hard to 
classify politically. While a good South- 
ern Democrat and active politician, his 
Dixie prejudices are not so deeply cher- 
ished that they color his thinking about 
world affairs. Some of his friends call him 
a conservative; some classify him as a 
liberal. He was one of the Old Guard 
Southerners who took New Dealism in 
stride. Since serving as a major in the 
Army, he has worked in the Office of 
Economic Stabilization and the OWMR 
with Byrnes and later with Fred M. Vin- 
son, Byrnes’s successor. His wife and 
three children now regard themselves as 
more or less permanent Washin 
dents but like to spend part of 
in Spartanburg. 

Walter Brown, third of the Byrnes 


m resi- 
eir time 


‘men, is an old-time Washington political 





Newstvamx; Jury 28, 1945 


reporter who speaks journalese with a 
high-pitched Southern voice. Politics was 
his hobby long before it became his trade, 
As pqntehiornans for several South Caro- 
lina newspapers he was drawn to Bymes 
by respect for the senator’s political 
sagacity. Before that, Brown’s political 
mentor was the late Sen. Tom Watson of 
Georgia, formerly his father-in-law, an 
orator of the old bloody shirt-waving 
school. When Byrnes quit the Supreme, 
Court bench to take over the OES, Brown 
gave up his newspaper and radio work 
to act as Byrnes’s public-relations coun- 
selor and political hand. 

Coming back to Washington with his 
second wife and son, after living for a 
time in Spartanburg, Brown was retum- 
ing to his natural habitat. He ran Byrnes’s 
unsuccessful campaign for the Vice Pres- 
idential nomination at Chicago in 1944 
an affair kicked off at a $3,000 cocktail 
party in the Stevens Hotel. He also han- 
dled Byrnes’s backstage campaign for the 
State Department job. Jaen 

Last of the team, but not least, is Miss 
Cassandra Connor, middle-aged confiden- 
tial secretary, who has been with Byrnes 
since 1925. linen no foreign expert 
and no higher-level policy adviser, “Cas- 
sie” Connor may well leave her imprint 
on American foreign policy somewhere 


- along Byrnes’s way. She is a shrewd 


judge of people and has no inhibitions 
about telling her boss, or the Frege in 
question, what she thinks of them. She 
may not take kindly to some of the State 
Department types. ; 


PP 


Self-Defense 


A girl employe of the National Mari- 
time Union was among the: pickets in 
front of the War Shipping Administra- 
tion at the Commerce Department Build- 
ing. As she marched to and fro carrying 
a sign protesting the cut in war-risk bonus 
payments to seamen, a quiet man dressed 
in civvies came out of. the building, 
paused, and asked: “Why are you picket- 
ing Admiral Land? It’s not his fault. Why 
not picket Capitol Hill?” After he had 
left, the girl turned to a fellow picket 
and inquired: “Who was that gu 

“That guy,” said the picket gleefully, 
“was Admiral Land.” 


Pe 


State Fiddles 


The nervous indecision of State De- 
partment officials, in the absence of their 
new boss, has given rise. to this gag: 
“State fiddlés while Byrnes roams.” 


Po 


Tear Jerker 


American fliers returning to the United 
States by way of Marrakech, Morocco, 
tell of the Arab be who has taken up 
his tion near U.S. airfield there. 
He has learned this pitiful appeal in Eng- 
lish: “No papa. No mama. No per diem. 














CHEVROLET 


14-AND 18-CYLINDER 
AIRCRAFT ENGINES 
FOR MANY OF AMERICAS 
MIGHTIEST WARPLANES 


THE ‘“‘R-2800"... 

18 CYLINDERS — 

OVER 2100 HORSEPOWER ... 

BUILT IN VOLUME FOR VICTORY 

Here is the latest model of the Pratt & Whitney "'R-2800"’ aircraft 
engine, mass-produced by Chevrolet. It is the most powerful model of 
this famous series of aviation power plants. In all, as of this date, 
Chevrolet has produced more than 60,000 Pratt & Whitney 14- and 
LR Exava lialelctaol daaohamctale als toed Yoh AelaereMaalolah Molar -Waslclalae Maat mco lai lole ls 


fighters, bombers and cargo planes—-and will continue to build Volume BUY MORE 


for Victory until the war is definitely and conclusively won WAR BONDS 


CHEVROLET owivision | GENERAL MOTORS 








‘oe~* 





FIGHTING FRONTS ° 





Naval Bombardment of Jap Soil 
Warns Foe Final Blow Is Near 


- Nimitz’s Biggest Battleships 
Boldly Add Weight to Air Fleets 
Blasting Out Invasion Path 


The war in the Pacific entered the next 
to the last stage last week. The giant for- 
tren of Japan went under siege—both 

from the air and the. seas. The empire, 
bereft of the spoils of all its island con- 
quests, was ringed in and the Allies tight- 
ened the ‘screws as never. before. Great 
fleets of B-29s hammered strategic tar- 
gets with furious intensity. Carrier planes 
of the world’s: greatest striking force 
brought the war to hitherto inaccessible 
recesses of the home islands. And for the 
first time since 1864, when British, 
Dutch, ve Ea gnet —— 7 —— 
station foreign-hating 

sacred soil of Japan rocked to - aaghew 

. cussion of enemy naval gunfire. 


Contempt by Nimitz: On the mom- 
ine f Fay 14, a task force of Admiral 
Halsey’s Third Fleet com- 

rock fa by Rear pases John F. Sha- 
Jr. sudden! ared off the coast 

or Honshu Islan oo filed past the steel 
275 miles north of 


of. Kamaishi, 
tT At 11:51, the 16-inch rifles of the 


Pacific battleline: Carsiets snd bettlechips take the warteJepan 


battleships Massachusetts, Indiana, and 
South Dakota, and the 8- and 5-inch 
guns of the cruisers Chicago and Quincy 
and: ‘the destroyers Southerland, Heer- 
man, Erben, and Black opened up and 
their shells screamed down on Kamai- 
shi’s steel works and coke ovens. 

The ships bombarded the city for a 
leisurely two hours without challenge 
from the land, sea, or air. They nosed in 
as close as 8 miles from the shore. The 
next morning another great surface task 
force commanded by Rear Admiral Oscar 
C. Badger and composed in part of the 
meptoutceioe. Iowa, Missouri, and 
Wisconsin, and the destroyers McGowan, 
Norman Scott, and Remey heavily — 
the port of Muroran, a big steel ci 
which lies on the southern coast of Hok- 
kaido, northernmost of the Japanese home 
islands. The Japs offered no resistance. 

In a gesture of supreme contempt, 
miral Nimite ann 
mena of daniral Ge ate wad cote. 
manders while the attacks were still 


under way. In an even more unprece- 


dented reversal of Pacific fleet policy, he 
let his task forces. break radio sile 


nce so 


that ote peer could send runnin 

accounts of the actions. It all meant thes 
the United States Navy knew the Japa- 
nese was vi y through as a 





es oe 


-_ Newswerx, , Jour 8, 1945 


hy it point- 
informed Japan that American war- 





ships had begun a phase of attack that 


to invasion barrages. 
y had been paved for ‘the his- 
toric Pais sb by two great strikes 
of Vice Admiral John. S. McCain’s® fast 
carrier force of the Third Fleet. On July 
10, McCain’s carriers, including the Es- 
ae to, appened of Tele. cal San 
acinto started 
a series of attacks that lasted from before 
dawn until dusk. More than 1,000 -fight- 
ers, torpedo planes, and dive bombers 
smothered the airfields on the Tokyo 


plain. The Japs were taken by surprise. 


Four days later the same task force ap- 
peared just as suddenly in the cold, foggv 
waters east of Hokkaido, _ 


Explains: In high, pitching 
Pape: an dirty weather, the t armada 
launched its planes for low- evel attacks 
on military installations on Northern 
Honshu and Southern Hokkaido. The at- 
tack continued into - second day. Pre- 
liminary oe put the carrier aid 
destroyed or damaged score. at 434 a, 
and 182 small sp oe vessels, includin 
six train ferries that plied between. ok. 
kaido and Honshu, in both strikes. They 
saw and shot down only three Japanese 


t, - planes in the air. These were reconnais- 


ooh wee ee 


proved disappointing. Before 
tacks a flagship Pa oel 
“The presen pare this powerful 


at American air 


gutted b B20. athens in six of 
; buildings still 
Teg vec of iy war factories lay 


é een the Marianas nine:monthy ago now 


into. strikes. of 600 planes. 


‘mushroomed 
- Bomb tonnage of the raids ‘had. Seeaped 
. from 400 to. 4,000 tons, But the Allies 















Many wounded 


% 


_ This makes their trip as comfortable as possible, but... 


veterans going to general hospitals ... 


There's the shift to the Pacific, too! . 


The pictures of the wounded men 
above—taken en route by permission 
of the War Department—help ex- 
plain why the travel situation is more 
critical than ever. 5 

But these pictures tell only part of 
the story. 

In addition to the many’ sleeping 
cars Pullman is privileged to provide 
to transport American wounded to 


‘hospitals,in this country, many more 


cars are needed to carry out the great- 
est mass movement of troops in his- 


tory. The need is increasing daily. 


More than a million fighting men 
will cross America this year. Many 
thousands of them will travel in Pull- 
man comfort.. Many will make side- 
trips home on furlough, too, before 
going “on to Tokyo”’. 


“sometimes makes it hard for others fo get Pullman space! 


will probably be greater—for 
the next few months at least— 
than at any time since we have 
been at war! 


If you have to take a trip—and should 
find it hard to get the Pullman space 
you want exactly when you want it— 
please remember that Pullman’s war 
job isn’t over, either! 


© 1945, THE PULLMAN COMPANY 


POUT UMGAW ics pie hs pees ws tr pienaer woe 





36 FIGHTING FRONTS 


Ss . ak 


ie ‘age 79 seg ERI rece AB SO o a 


iets — sates ocho 


NEWSWEEK Map by James Cutter 


The beleaguered empire’s greatest cities burn under the ever-increasing strategic bombing of the B-29s 


installations, and chopped up shipping 


trying to run the blockade. And on July 
13 the commander of the Far Eastern Air 
Force, Gen. George C. Kenney, moved 
from the Philippines to Okinawa and took 
command of the Seventh in addition to 
the Fifth and Thirteenth Air Forces. The 
new Army tactical air commander an- 
nounced: “We will now attack Japan 24 
hours a day.” 


Japan: Phantom Feelers 


The Japanese offered to give up their 
overseas conquests—lock, stock, and bar- 
rel. They would even withdraw from 
Manchuria—they were ready to sign on 
the dotted line. So went the rumors. But 
in Washington last week, Acting Secre- 
tary of State Joseph C. Grew bluntly told 
Americans the hard reality—the United 


States Government has received absolute- 
ly no peace overtures from the Japanese 
Government. 

Grew went further. He warned Ameri- 
cans to expect Jap peace feelers, but 
only as part of the enemy’s psychological 
warfare campaign to confuse and divide 
the Allies. “In no case,” hé said, “has this 
government been presented with a state- 
ment purporting to define the basis upon 





ute- 
1ese 


eri- 
but 
ical 
vide 
this 
ate- 
pon 














which the Japanese Government would 
be prepared to conclude. peace.” Grew 
added that any feelers put out in neutral 
countries “have invariably been inquiries 
as to our position”—the answer to which 
remained unconditional surrender. 


Dad 


The Gods Try 

Before the saddle-roofed shrines of Ja- 
pan lay row after row of neatly paired 
wooden clogs. Inside, men and women 
knelt to ask the gods for a miracle. Seven 
centuries ago the Divine Wind had blown 
away the approathing fleet of the Mongol 
tyrant, Kubla Khan. Perhaps, with the 
American Fleet roaming dangerously 
near, the gods would cross the Floatin 
Bridge of Heaven once again to defen 
the homeland. 

On June 8, as if in answer to the pray- 
ers, a violent wind gathered in the Philip- 


ine Sea-and headed: north. Two days 
ter, the Navy revealed last week, it 
crescendoed into a 138-mile-an-hour gale 
and plowed directly through a great 
sree of Third Fleet warships east of 
the Ryukyus. The vessels pitched and 
rolled. Stinging sheets of rain reduced 
visibility to zero, cutting each ship off 
from its neighbor. Waves 100 feet 
high bolted over the decks, battering 
in steel plates. 

Of all the ships, the hardest hit was 


‘the year-old heavy cruiser Pittsburgh. 


While Capt. John E. Gingrich watched 
the rising storm from his bridge, two 
mammoth waves suddenly heaved against 
the vessel. Before the eyes of the horri- 
fied crew, a 104-foot length of the bow 
snapped off and swept past the port 
side.. Fearful that it would smash into 
the side of the crippled ship, Gingrich 
ordered the cruiser turned at an angle. 
Meanwhile, below decks, with furniture 


o 


FIGHTING FRONTS 937 


and loose equipment sliding wild!y across 
the floors, the men worked to brace sag- 
ging bulkheads. 


Retovering a Suburb: At last, the 
typhoon blew itself out to sea. And five- 
sixths of the Pittsburgh (no man was lost) 
limped back to Guam at 8% knots for 
repairs. A week later, a tug steamed 
into Apra Harbor, towing the cruiser’s 
recovered prow—the missing sixth, which 
gained fame among the ship’s crew as a 
Pittsburgh suburb. 

Altogether, the wind had damaged at 
least 21 warships, including three fast 


battleships and two Essex-class carriers— 
a greater toll than the Japanese Navy had 
ever been able to score in a single en- 


gagement. But somehow the g 


s had 


slipped. Only one American life was lost. 
All but the miraculously saved Pitts- 


bur 


had returned to action by last 


week. At least four of the damaged ves- 





WAR TIDES 





: The most inten- 
. sive and. wide- 
+ scale operations 
in the Pacific at 
the moment are 
carried on by air 
power. In the 
north, Japan. it- 
self is the main 
target. From To- 
kyo west, B-29s 
are giving the 
home __ islands 
much the same treatment the Reich got 
before the invasion of Europe. The ob- 
jective is strategic—to beat existing Jap 
air power into a position of comparative 
impotency while destroying aircraft 
factories and fuel supplies. In short, to 
reduce Jap aviation to the position of 
the Jap Fleet today. y 
At the same time, American air fleets 
are striking targets which contribute to 
Japan’s war-making ability in all ways. 
The sum total of these efforts is the 
studied attempt to reduce Jap resist- 
ance in terms of morale and matériel so 
that when invasion day comes, military 
occupation will cost fewer Allied lives. 





Marianas have been able to stretch the 
range to the city of Sendai, 190 miles 
north of Tokyo. But this is rather more 
than the limit of continuous effort, and 
it leaves Northern Honshu and Hok- 
kaido beyond the practical working 
bombing range of land-based aircraft. 
However, when B-29s begin operating 
from Okinawa, they can cover all of 





Thus far our B-29s based in the - 


Honshu and the southern part of Hok- 
kaido. Admiral. Halsey’s catriers have 
joined the air campaign to supplement 
the work of the B-29s, even — 


_ the attack to Northern Honshu an 


Hokkaido. 
: Elsewhere throughout the entire Far 
East, Allied air power is stepping up 
the pace of attack to pave the way for 
the final operations, which must be 
military in character. Nowhere in the 
world is the need for air supremacy in 
every form greater than it is in the Far 
Eastern war. i 

Recently Tokyo announced without 
American confirmation-that ships of the 
Ninth Fleet, stationed in the Aleutians 
under Vice Admiral Frank Jack Fletch- 
er, had attacked: Shikuka at the head of 
Taraika Bay. on. Karafuto, the Japanese 
part of Sakhalin Island. If this be true, 
it raises. the interesting speculation as 
to whether we were looking for a spot 
for an air base. A good air base in the 
Kuriles to. put Hokkaido and Northern 
Honshu under attack has always been 
desirable. But unfavorable terrain and 
climate, difficulties of supply, and ene- 
my opposition have all united to make 
the occupation of one of the Kuriles 
rather. impracticable. 

However, there happens to be a 
stretch of slightly more than 28 miles on 
Kita Shiretoka Peninsula on the eastern 

'side of Taraika Bay which is practically 
uninhabited and has sandy beaches and 
good water leading to them. There are 
not many hills (the highest is 674 feet). 
From there the distance to Tokyo is 
about the same as from Okinawa to the 


Strategic Air Attacks Tighten the Noose on Tokyo 


‘by Admiral WILLIAM V. PRATT, U.S.N., Ret. 


Jap capital. On the other hand, winter 
storms and fog. supply, construction, 
and operational difficulties are as un- 
favorable as in the Kuriles. Such a base 
could be only temporary. Ultimately 
this area must pass to Russia. Probably 
the same amount of effort. could better 
be expended elsewhere. 


Recently a Navy. communiqué 
stated that Army Thunderbolts: had 
made the first attack on the Goto Is- 
lands. This is interesting because: the 
Goto Islands have a higher strategic 
value than Amami O Shima, north of 
Okinawa. Fukaye, the southern island in 
the group, is about 14 by 14 miles. It 
has several fine sites for air strips. Tam- 
ano Ura, a long arm of the sea indent- 
ing the west coast for about 4 miles, is 
one of the best-protected anchorages 
to be found in the lesser islands sur- 
rounding Japan. In addition, Fukaye’s 
position is excellent. Slightly nearer the 
mouth of the Yangtze River than Oki- 
nawa, and considerably nearer the Shan- 
tung promontory, it lies about 53 miles 
from Nagasaki and 650 from Tokyo. 

Another straw in the wind is a Brit- 
ish task force attack on the Nicobar 
Islands in the Indian Ocean. There is 
the snug little anchorage at Nancowry 
Island in the group which is capable of 
holding some large ships. From Nan- 
cowry to Penang is about 496 miles; to 
Sabang off the northern tip of Sumatra, 
recently bombed by aircraft of the Brit- 
ish East Indies Fleet, it is 165 miles, 
Undoubtedly air strips exist or could 
be constructed in this general area. 


4 


4 


a 











j 
; 
; 


at 


Vee 





38 FIGHTING FRONTS 


NEWSWEEK, JuLy 23, 1945 


—————————————————_—_—_—————__—_—_;—;—~—=—&z{_£z£:£&<~—~O~E~i—=———z—~_———_———__—___———————————EEESE ee 





What is the emperor to the Japa- 
nese people and what is he to the 
ruling clique? Maj. Compton Paken- 
ham, Newsweek contributing editor, 
analyzes this most complex of Japa- 
nese institutions in the sixth of a series 
of articles on the Japanese psychology. 


“The emperor is Heaven-descended, 
divine, and sacred; he is preeminent 
above his subjects,” says the great 
work on Japanese government, Prince 
Hirobumi Ito’s “Kempo Gikai” or 
“Commentaries on the Constitution.” 

“He must be reverenced and is in- 
violable. He has, indeed, to pay due 
respect to the law, but the law has no 
power to hold him accountable to it. 
Not only shall there be no irreverence 
to the emperor’s person, but also shall 
he not be made a topic of derogatory 
comment nor one of discussion.” That 
is all a Japanese needs to know. Most 
of them do not even know his personal 
name, Hirohito. Married couples have 
committed double suicide, leaving 
families, on discovering that inadvert- 
ently they have given the emperor’s 
name to their latest offspring. The em- 
peror’s subjects—his Omitakara (Great 
Personal Treasures) —are satisfied with 
the knowledge that historically he 
will bear the title he chose for his 
reign—ironically, Showa or Enlight- 
ened Peace. Otherwise the Japanese 
-call him Tenno Heika (His Imperial 
Majesty) or Tenshi (Son of Heav- 
en). The safest reference is Kinjo 
Heika (literally: Now Up, or Pres- 
ent Emperor). 


The Sacred Person: If the Japs will 
not discuss their thoughts about the 
entperor, they reveal them in actions. 
Daily, particularly on festivals, wor- 
shippers perform their devotions at 
the imperial palace’s outer entrance, 
bowing at the grim walls and iron 
gates that protect him. When he ven- 
tures abroad by automobile or train, 
in daylight or dark, crowds gather as 
close to the route as the police allow 
and after hours of vigil greet him with 

at silence and bowed heads, not 

aring to view the object of their pil- 
grimage. When the emperor addressed 
a public gathering—in 1940 to cele- 
brate the 2,600 anniversary of his line 
—most of the audience were too over- 
awed to raise their eyes. Granted 
enormous wealth, armed with the 
Sacred Treasures (mirror, sword, and 
jewel, historic symbols of imperial 
rule), constitutionally clad in planet 
absolute power, and pedestaled in 
mystery, he is a focal point for 
the mass mind, lifting his attention 
over and above the machinery of 
government. 





The Divine Dummy: How Jap Leaders Rule 


The Think-Alikes: As the one who 
sanctions, promulgates, and executes 
laws, commands the army and navy, 
declares war, makes peace, and con- 
cludes treaties, the emperor is the 
dynamo from which all power flows, 
But a dynamo cannot generate with- 
out power behind it, and this comes 
from the oligarchy—constitutional and 
extra-constitutional groups—the Min- 
isters of the Imperial Household, the 
Privy Council, the Cabinet, ex-Prime 
Ministers, officers of the fighting forces 
with the privilege of iaku joso (direct 

ccess to the throne). the Supreme 
War Council and, in time of war, 
Imperial Headquarters. ; 

Considering the political color of 
these advisers, as with all things Japa- 
nese, one must scrap the familiar 
labels—dictator, fascist, warmonger, 
liberal, democrat, moderate. Funda- 
mentally all think as one. Whatever 
immediate detail may involve, pre- 
eminent in these minds are the cap- 
suled doctrines: Hakko Ichiu, the prog- 
ress of the imperial way, Japan’s 
hegemony over the world, the destiny 
of the Yamoto race. P 


From Clan to Godhead: In these 
groups are only representatives of 
well-defined interests, each with its 
own reason for supporting a particular 
line of action. Easiest to identify are 
the soldiers and sailors on the active 
list, professional fighters with all to 
gain and, in the tradition of perpetual 
victory, nothing to lose. Administra- 
tive career men come next. 

The representatives of big business 
—the Mitsui and Mitsubishi companies 
each controlled its great political party 
when these were permitted to exist— 
are generally strengthened by their 
other affiliations. For transparent rea- 
sons, they usually also control the 
smallest class, the professional poli- 
ticians who, when the Diet was in ses- 
sion, had a value there. A closed cor- 
poration, its parts working by compro- 
mise and each producing its own suc- 
cessors, the group around the throne 
has always been able to exclude any 
who do not belong to one of its com- 
ponent lodges. 

It is the ancient clan and family 
system expanded to national propor- 


tions. Japs are not trained to make de- . 


cisions. The family council discusses 
everything for them and arrives at a 
compromise. So in the Japanese gov- 
ernment, various privileged interests, 


with a minimum of regard for the) 


elected representatives of the people, 
bargain among themselves and funnel 
their conclusions a divine 
dummy—a process which transforms 
their edicts into holy writ. 








sels (the battleships Massachusetts and 
Indiana, the carrier San Jacinto, and the 
destroyer John Rodgers) had been 
patched up in time to take part in the 
carrier strikes against the Japanese home- 
land (see page 34). 


Po 


One Against Bushido 


Fellow officers shook their heads pity. 
ingly as Marine Lt. Col. George J. Clark 
expounded his bizarre plan. Clark actual- 
ly thought he had a bloodless way to get 
a Jap garrison holding out on an island 
off Okinawa to surrender. “It just can’t 
happen with Japanese,” the others said. 
But Clark finally got a chance to see what 
he could do against the Bushido code. 
Last week the Navy told how the Ma- 
rine made out. 


The Major Listens: On June 13 the 
psychological warfare campaign began. 
An amphibious duck equipped with loud- 
speakers churned around the island and 
boomed out surrender appeals. Then the 
Americans landed and continued their 
broadcasts from the beach. For six days 
they got no results. On the seventh, a 
Japanese sergeant walked out unarmed. 
He brought a message from the Japanese 
commander, Major Watanabe’® asking just 
what the Americans wanted. They told 
him. Back came word that Major Wata- 
nabe would make his decision only after 
talking to a captured classmate of his, 
Major Hirakatsu. 

Hirakatsu had a knee wound, but on 
June 26 Clark brought him ashore, leg- 
cast and all, and a parley started under 
the suspicious eyes of Jap snipers and 
machine gunners. Watanabe, wearing 
full-dress uniform of winter wool, a chest- 
ful of medals, a pistol, and a Samurai 
sword, saluted smartly. Clark immediate- 
ly took off his gun holster. The Jap like- 
wise unbuckled his sword and gun, 
handed them to an orderly, and disdain 
fully motioned him away. Then he sat 
down by his wounded classmate. Hira- 
katsu. spoke with persuasion and heat. 
He seemed to be making progress. 


The Lieutenant Weeps: At a lapse in 
the conversation, Clark suggested a recess 
for lunch and had food brought in from 
a nearby ship. The officers sat down to 
pork chops, sweet potatoes, and carrots. 
The Jap guards came down from the 
hills, accepted tinned rations, ‘and asked 
eagerly about treatment of = of 
war. Two Navy lieutenants later visited 
the Japanese major’s command post. 

Watanabe outdid himself in courtesy. 
When he saw the Americans’ sweat- 
stained shirts, he ordered an orderly to 
wash them and took off his own shirt in 
order not to cause embarrassment. He ac- 
cepted a piece of American invasion cur- 
rency as a souvenir, amiably signed short- 
snorter bills, and agreed to give an an- 





*For protection of the Japs, the Navy gave them 
names. 2 

















































































































































































































———— 
tts and 
and the 
| been 
in the 
> home- 
ds pity- MARINETTE PAPER COMPANY 
. Clark . MARINETTE. WISCONSIN 
actual- PAYROLL JOURNAL 
y to get ; —— 
1 island mene. eanninos ee | ss 
st can’t : 26604 290610 26004-/35 “ 14996 
s arn. 22552 251.758@ 22552- ;. 
9 code. 394.76 32093. 
he Ma- 2 
P ree CARD 1965 

13 the a 

began. sal > 1 2. | “er 
ope oe > [eee elle see) apne | tse 
nd and Soop ens : : ave | 23.36% 
1en the 3 Bass ze| | 3 perenne a 
d their : 
ix days 
eaith, 9 Pav v0 7 OR more than thirty years 
armed, concen op Helen Doe : s 
panese Monroe Calculating Machines 
ing just er ee have maintained leadership. The 
Bon yon ATO mechanical excellence and superior 
y aia sneiniiat nits sibel. service responsible for this record 
of his, eine PU POUL ON J Lh, a LS pe a are built into Monroe Accounting 
5 lid aia ei and Listing Machines. ; 
Sie Monroe’s unique Payroll Ac- 
=ndel / counting Machine has reached new 
rs and . 5 ait s8 4 heights in simplifying and speed- 
me, —\ a= aS EZ A ; ing up payroll procedures. The es- 
aniral sential records: journal, individual 
ediate- = ame = earnings record, and employee’s re- 
p like- _— Ve } ceipt, are produced and proved si- 
% ae = ae as multaneously. By a s‘mple turn of 
he sat ‘ ae program har this same Monroc is 
_ Hira- _ ee ; ready for Accounts Receivable or 

y 
| heat. a 7 a ef APA : : other accounting work—or it may 
| be instantly converted intoa straight 

apse in | adding-listing machine. 

fron < a (NS a Thanks to simplicity and unusual 
in to fa fe 7 visibility, the operator can use this 
varrots. — ie dey loa machine expertly after a few min- 
m the eo ie a utes’ instruction—and the “Velvet 
fags : Touch” keyboard defies fatigue. 
visited : , | Whether your payroll he large or 
st. i Ves a west small, let a representative from our 
aaa Ba. \ Covet. a sw — nearby branch explain the Monroe 
arly to of r% a \ Simplified Payroll ‘Plan. Monroe 
hirt in | ok. | a 4 Calculating Machige.Company, 
He a yo Se eae Inc., Orange, N. J. 

m cur- : oe wae . 

-short- 

an an- 








ve them 

















My boss’s blood pressure 


IS back to: normal 





v 


#1 

“Before we had SoundScriber electronic ‘dicta. 
tion equipment, exasperating bottlenecks in 
our office were playing havoc with my boss’s 
disposition! 

“Then, one lucky day a SoundScriber repre- 
sentative demonstrated the miracle-working 
Soundscriber Recorder and Transcriber. 


“The boss, deeply impressed, ordered on the 
spot. And presto! The bottlenecks were broken. 
The pressure let down on all of us.” 


Before you buy new “Dictating Equipment,” 
be sure you know about the revolutionary 
advantages of SoundScriber electronic record- 
ing on wafer-thin plastic discs. 

Mail ‘coupon for challenging new brochure: 
“The most useful new OFFICE DEVICE since 
the typewriter.’ Includes sample disc; explains 
4, SoundScriber’s many 
other uses besides 
dictation; shows why 
this modern method 
saves a large amount 
of typing and other 
work in many offices, 


JSUND/RIBER 


MARK 
PIONEER IN ELECTRONIC DICTATING EQUIPMENT 
Copyright 1945, The SoundScriber Corp. 


ei eed Cops saemenealicas Teyana eee 


| SOUNDSCRIBER CORP., Dept W- 1g bpw Havent, Conn. r 
! Send me free brochure “ most useful new i 
1 OFFICE DEVICE since the titer,” including § 
; sample SoundScriber w, in recording disc. ! 
t MAME s. 
1 ADDRESS Rs 


es ee ee oe em ee eee ee ml ol 












since we use SoundScriber 





40 FIGHTING FRONTS | 


swer to the surrender offer next day. 
But when the Americans came again, 


Major Watanabe did not show up. He . 


was afraid, an aide, Lieutenant Shige- 
mitsu said, to listen to his own desires 
and violate the Bushido code by surren- 
dering without imperial permission. But 
he promised that his men would not fire 
on American planes and sent word that 
the Americans were ‘ree to picnic, bathe, 
and collect sea shelis un the island beach 
without being fired on. The final parting 
of the American and Jap groups made an 
incredible scene: All knelt side by side 
on the white coral sand as a chaplain 
offered up a prayer for peace and good 
will. Lieutenant Shigemitsu broke into 
tears and with double handclasps . bade 
his enemy farewell. : 


Per 


Back to Water Proof 


In China, the name of Maj. Gen. 
Claire L. Chennault became legend. For 
eight years he had helped the Chinese 
beat the Japs in the air—first as an ad- 
viser to Chiang Kai-shek, then as or- 
ganizer of the American Volunteer 
Group, the Flying Tigers, and finally as 
commander of the American Fourteenth 
Air Force. From December of 1941 
when a handful of Tigers had helped 
keep the Burma Road open, one of his 
greatest talents had been knowing how 
to fight patiently on a shoestring (Chen- 
nault always managed to keep his obso- 
lete planes flying). Last week, his pa- 
tience wore out. He resigned. 

Formally, the move was explained. as 
a retirement for physical disability. But 
it was'no secret to Chennault’s men that 
the veteran Fourteenth no longer rated 
as the main air unit in China. 


The Sad Farewell: Other American 
outfits from India and Burma were 
steadily being shifted to China, eating 
into the already meager supplies flown 
over “the Hump” to the Fourteenth. The 
reorganizations called for a new frame- 
work of command, topped by Lt. Gen. 
George E. Stratemeyer, with whom 
Chennault had long disagreed. 

When Stratemeyer first came to the 
CBI theater 23 months ago, Chennault 
persuaded Chiang to have President 
Roosevelt exclude the Fourteenth from 
the higher ranking general’s command. 
Chennault thus remained more or less in- 
dependent. But he could do little or noth- 
ing about getting more bombs or fuel for 
his worn-out planes. Finally, as the su 
ply situation went from bad to worse, the 
Fourteenth was virtually grounded. For 
the past ten weeks, it has flown no big 
peel os missions. Chennault called in cor- 
respondents and quietly announced ‘his 
plans to give up his commission and re- 
Sedlly; he pecked up at bie tparely fur 
Sadly, he pa up at hi: - 
nished headquarters in Kunming and told 
his Chinese fri 
with you at the end.” < 


ends: “I regret I cannét be 


NEWSWEEK, JuLy 23, 1945 








International 
Chennault walks out F 


SHAEF: 1944-1945 


The sentimental American newspaper- 
man clinked down his glass ona Paris 
bar. Outside, shouting Frenchmen danced 
in the streets on Bastille Day, July 14. 
“Look at them,” he murmured disgusted- 
ly. “Celebrating at the very moment 
SHAEF breathes its last. You'd think it 
was a national holiday or something.” 

Many an Allied officer and correspond- 
ent felt a similar twinge as Supreme 
Headquarters of the Allied: Expedition- 
ary Force disbanded after seventeen 
months and one day. General of the Army 
Eisenhower saluted his Allied forces in 
a last order of the day: “No praise is 
too high for the manner in which you 
have surmounted every obstacle.” The 
biggest and smoothest combined com- 
mand in history, welded by his genius, 
from personnel of ten nationalities, then 
split apart. 

Few outward signs showed at first that 
SHAEF was dead. Frankfurt became 
headquarters of the new USFET—United 
States Forces in the European Theater— 
commanded by Eisenhower. But many 
British and French officers stayed on for 
liaison. In Paris, Allied officers. still wore 
the flaming sword shoulder patch of 
SHAEF. Allied service clubs still bulged 
with polyglot customers. And SHAEF 
left a ghost: CALA, the Combined Ad- 
ministrative Liquidating Agency, which 
has the laborious task of copying and 


_micro-filming thousands of SHAEF docu- 


ments for each participating country. 























OME are headed home for good—but 


millions more will stay only briefly 
before they go on to finish the job in 
the Pacific. a 


These fighters are now on the move—and . 


this is the No. 1 reason why trains are so 


crowded these days. 


If it comes to a choice between your taking 
a trip—and a returned soldier’s getting to 
see his home folks before moving on to an 


embarkation point — we know you will 





* * x * 


“The transportation job in the 
first phase of the war has 
often been called a ‘miracle.’ 
The job ahead of us is even 
bigger. 

“It is important that the public 
understand the situation and 
at once lend full cooperation 


in order that the burden may 
be minimized.” 


— PRESIDENT TRUMAN 


a a 


\ 


understand who deserves the right of way. 


The railroads must continue to devote all 
their energies toward hastening final victory 
and the day when the boys can come back 


home for good. : 


We know that’s the way you want it—and 


we count on your cooperation. 


AMERICAN RAILROADS 


ALL UNITED FOR VICTORY 








¢ INTERNATIONAL SCENE ° 





Big Three Face the Biggest Task: 
Insuring Peace Through Unity 


Problems of Europe at Top 
but Russian Role in the Pacific 
Also on Conference Agenda 


The puzzle pieces of Europe were laid 
out this week on the dark red cloth of a 
table in a Potsdam palace built for the 
kaisers. They were laid out for three men 
to pick over; to try to make them fit into 
part of a master puzzle called The World. 
Two of the men were old hands at power 
politics. They had met before with re- 
spect—if not affection. The third was a 
stranger to international diplomacy. 
Never before had three such divergent 
personalities been charged with such gi- 
age problems. As the time approached 
or their meeting, the world received 
news of each of the three that typified 
the man and his methods. 


Atlantic Cruise:. Harry S. Truman 
peeled off his coat, cocked’ his brown 
tweed cap at a jaunty angle, and scram- 





Truman and Churchill arrive to join Stalin and set the’ course for the world 


bled from the boiler room to the top con- 
trol tower of the cruiser Augusta, en 
route from Newport News, Va., to Ant- 
werp, Belgium. He ate lunch with the 
crew and looked up a third cousin from 
Kentucky below decks. In a white sailor 
cap, he turned out for a lifeboat drill, 
played shuffleboard, watched. gunnery 
practice, and went to the ship’s movies. 
Tanned and relaxed, he had a good time. 
But he also worked hard. 

Before meeting with the two old 
hands, the President of the United States 
continued the grueling studies he had 
begun three months before. Hour after 
hour, in his Flag Admiral’s suite, he 
boned ‘up with his Secretary of State, 
James F. Byrnes, and his Chief of Staff, 
Fleet Admiral William D. Leahy. By 
radio, he exchanged messages with the 
White House, SHAEF, American embas- 
sies in Europe, and advance American 
delegation units in Potsdam. Intent and 
confident, he listened to advice, mem- 
orized facts, and made up his mind on 
the issues ahead. 












. °° Newsweex, Jury 28, 1945 


Hendaye Holiday: On “Lovers’ 
Wali ida, any cw 
pink- yellow- s ut- 
tered Chateau Bordaberry, - Winston 
Churchill puffed a cigar and painted a 
new water color. He had a rich choice 
> ged peak of the Spnieh Fouencons the 
ru ; the 

id - beach dotted with multi-colored 
parasols and ice-cream carts; the deep- 
green waters of the Bay of Biscay. 

Super-statesman, a political veteran of 
two wars and two Big. Three meetings, 
Churchill was on a holiday. Whatever hi 
doubts about the election he had just 
fought at home, Britain’s chief delegate 
was sure of his foreign policy. He was 
the complete, selecer diplomat on the 


eve of his most important assignment. 


Moscow Silence: The world had nev- 
er received homey details of Jaseph Stal- 
in’s daily doings, and it learned none 
last week. But it did know that the man 
in the Kremlin held the keys to the 
meeting at Potsdam, and its consequences 
to the new peace. Certainly no other of 
the Big Three knew with such \certainty 
what he wanted and How he was going 
to get it. Stalin might be drinking wine 
or studying economics in his walled home 
residence. But the 
his preparations. for Potsdam;came in 
a Moscow communiqué. . 

It announced that T. V. Soong, Chi- 
nese Premier and Foreign Minister, had 
left for Chungking after a fortnight of 
“conversations conducted in a friendly 
atmosphere” with “broad mutual under- 
standing.” Soong was due to return when 
the Potsdam conference ended for fur- 


ther conversations. 


Mines, MP’s, and Caviar: As at the 
two previous Big Three meetings, securi- 
ty Bon soins were elaborate, accom- 
modations luxurious, and food bountiful. 

A belt of mines encircled the palace 
in Potsdam, and tanks and were 
stationed in the wooded hills sloping 
down to the Havel River. A. green and 
white barrier blocked the road to the 
sealed area and at 50-yard intervals in 
the streéts within it stood green-capped 
Red Army guards in dark dress uni- 
form, armed with tommy s and re- 
inforced. with American and British sol- 
diers. White-gloved Russian‘ policewom- 
en, waving red and orange flags, direct- 
ed traffic. 

More than 100 buildings were ready 
for the visitors. At conference headquar- 
ters, each of the Big Three had a private 
suite (sitting room, dining room, bed- 
room, and bath) and a consulting room. 
The main conference room is a spacious 
oak-paneled hall decorated in dark red, 
black and gold, its somberness relieved 
only by two enormous chandeliers light- 
ing the round conference table. In the 
huge dining room, the, Russian hosts had 
touched up a painting, substituting a 
large shining star fora dark.cloud over 
a ship. Stalin’s villa was nearby, Tru- 





y. official word of . 


How Man’s Voice First Bridged 
the Sea to this Country... - 


Not always 
Were the voices of the world 
As close as your telephone... 


Once the ocean. was a barrier... 
Once, for example, you could not phone 
From Cuba to this country 


Then, in 1921 

At a significant ceremony 

IT&T’s associate 

The Cuban Telephone Company 
Opened the Havana end 

Of a great.submarine cable circuit 
Bringing the voice of Cuba’s President 


Through a hundred miles of treacherous sea... 
Swirling with swift, Gulf Scream currents 
And infested with cable-boring teredos... 


To the President of the United States 


* * 
Just another 


Of the many milestones 

Which IT&T 

Has helped establish for mankind 

Along the road to world-wide communications 
% a 

Now marking its first 25 years 

Of international service 

To world communications 

IT&T is continuing to pioneer... 

In telephone... radio... telegraph... 

Television and other electronic fields. .. 

Continuing to bring man closer 

To a neighborly, peaceful 

One world 


INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH CORPORATION 


67 Broad Street, New York 4, N. Y. 
BUY AND HOLD WAR BONDS 











Conteol Center 


FOR A TOP-FLIGHT EXECUTIVE 








She, has attained her position of responsibility through her ability to get things . 


done. That is why Dictaphone Electronic Dictation appeals particularly to her. 
The microphone on the desk gives new dictating freedom, as well as complete 
and precise control over the entire organization. 

Ideas, instructions and letters are spoken conversationally into this micro- 
phone—which even records important across-the-desk discussions. Meanwhile 
the executive’s secretary is left free to prevent interruptions and to do her other 
work better. = - : 

Dictaphone Electronic Dictation is now available to civilians without priority 
restrictions. Send for free descriptive literature today. Dictaphone Corporation, 
420 Lexington Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. In Canada: Dictaphone Corporation, 
Ltd., 86 Richmond St. W., Toronto 2, Ont. 


DICTAPHONE Ehctuonic Ditton 


The word DICTAPHONE is the registered trade-mark of Dictaphone Corporation, makers of Acoustic and 
Electronic dictating machines and other sound recording and reproducing equipment bearing said trade-mark. 





44 _ Newsweex 





man’s and Churchill's a few miles away. 

Trucks and planes brought food sup- 
plies to a heavily guarded warehouse: 
Maryland turkeys, Long Island chickens, 
Virginia hams, Wisconsin cheeses, and 
coffee contributed by the United States; 
English tea, roast beef, Scotch, and Irish 
whiskies; Russian vodka and caviar; 
French wines, cognac, and champagne; 
Norwegian fish; Danish eggs and butter; 
berries and ‘fresh milk from German 
farms. 


Occupation and Peace: Truman and 
Churchill flew into a Berlin airport on 
July 15. Stalin was behind schedule and 
the conference was postponed until July 
17. The Allied military staffs assembled. 
Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden and 
Clement A. Attlee, leader of the British 
Labor party, flew in from Britain. Foreign 
Commissar Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff ac- 
companied Stalin. Of the 100-man Ameri- 
can delegation, some 30 were State De- 
periment experts on Europe and the Far 

ast. 

The meeting will adjourn on. July 25 
when the British delegation expects to fly 
back to London for election results. Dur- 
ing a week-long intermission, President 
Truman plans a visit to Italy; and Stalin 
may look over the Red Army in Ger- 
many. After the pause, if Labor wins the 
British election, Attlee will replace 
Churchill as chief British delegate. When 
the conference ends, Mr. Truman may 
make a state visit to Britain, although he 
is determined to return home for any- 
thing important. 

e over-all goal of the Big Three— 
and especially the British and the Ameri- 
cans—is to break down the barrier be- 
tween Eastern and Western Europe and 
establish a joint Allied policy for the fu- 
ture. Their first specific job was to agree 
on a policy of occupation for Germany, 
which President Truman hoped to re- 
solve by Directive 1067—an American 
short-term emergency plan and _long- 
term occupation program. 


Three Faces East: None of the three 
countries involved suggested that the war 
with Japan was on the agefida but the 
Russo-Chinese negotiations and the pres- 
ence of Allied military staffs and of 
State Department Far Eastern experts 
pointed only to one thing: discussion of 
Russia’s role in the Far East. 

Other issues: War criminals repara- 
tions, Europe’s coal supply and general 
economy, and the future of the govern- 
ments of Austria (which Britain and the 
United States do not yet recognize), 
Greece (which the Russians do not favor) 
and perhaps even Spain (which the Rus- 
sians abhor). Peace terms for Italy might 
be considered, and some Anglo-American 
decision reached on recognition of Rus- 
sia’s annexation of the Baltic republics 
and part of Finland. There were, finally, 
at least 30 territorial disputes in Eu- 
rope alone. 

In Germany itself, the future of the 












a ee ee 














ees, 


Jury 28, 1945 ee 45 





Saar, the -Ruhr, the Sudetenland, and 
Schleswig-Holstein were unsettled. (Even 
more pressing: Would Germans be 
fed?) Belgium demanded the return of 
German-annexed Eupen-Malmédy and 
France wanted part of the Italian Ri- 
viera. Czechoslovakia and Poland quar- 
reled over Teschen. Yugoslavia still clam- 
ored for Trieste and part of Venezia 
Giulia from Italy, the Banat from Hun- 
gary, and Klagenfurt from Austria. There 
was hardly a Balkan country which did 
not want part of its neighbors’ territory. 
Russia’s demands on Turkey for a new 
treaty and bases on the Dardanelles were 
still pending. So were the withdrawal of 
Allied trpops in Iran and international 
control of Tangier. The peace conference 
still lay ahead, but the decisions had to 
be made now. 








Associated Press 
Anders refuses to go home 


Bitter Enders 


Thoroughly angry, Gen. Wladyslaw 
Anders- addressed his 50,000-man Polish 
Second-Corps in Italy last week. “All our 
basic rights as a nation are being wiped 
out,” he stormed. Homebound soldiers 
would “go not to Poland but to Russia, 
not to a free life but to. captivity.” They 
could only count on “work in Soviet con- 
centration camps.” Ex 

Thus, on the eve of high international 
consultation, did Anders and other bitter- 
end Poles demonstrate the difficulties in- 
herent in Big Three “solution” of historic 
European problems. The United States 
and Britain had recognized the Provision- 
al Government of Poland (see page 51) 
after Moscow had at last permitted its 
reorganization under the formula.r 
at Yalta; Warsaw had urged the long 





PIPE-SMOKERS: Taste the flavor and admire the beauty of these 
new MONTEREY PIPES from California made of Mission Briar. 






Giant Mission Briar Burls 


MONTEREY 
Specimen Grain 
$5 
(also Select 
Grain $3.50) 


MISSION BRIAR 





A giant growth that forms above 





the ground— mellow with age 


MONTEREY Pipes from California, made of Mission Briar, . 
smoke with a special leisurely sweetness, because these big 

burl-growths have peculiar advantages (1) mellow with age 

(2) tempered by weather (3) of unusual soundness (4) with a 

beautiful grain which adds to the fine smoking-quality. Ask for 

MONTEREY PIPES, only ones made of MISSION BRIAR at 
your dealer’s, Select Grain $3.50, Specimen Grain $5, 


The Mission Country of California 
where Mission Briar grows on the 
sunny slopes of the Pacific Coast. 
Next advertisement will show the 
“Topping” operation. 


Kaufmann Bros. & Bondy, Ine. 
630 Fifth Ave. © New York 20, N.Y, 











AL SCENE 














46 INTERNATION 

















* Si &. 
International 


Star-Spangled Schwabisch: On July 4, American troops in the German city 
of Schwabisch-Gmiind lined up for the holiday parade as the band played “The 
Star-Spangled Banner.” Young Germans listened curiously to the conqueror’s na- 
tional anthem; their elders respectfully took off their hats and stood at sharp attention. 





. exiled troops to come home. Now Anders 
and his colleagues, still loyal to their de- 
funct émigré government in London, 
promised not to interfere if their follow- 
ers wanted to go home. But they thun- 
dered against it. Maj. Gen. Klemens Rud- 
nicki, commander of the Polish First 
Armored Division in occupied Germany, 

ledged allegiance to President Wladys- 
ce Raczkiewicz of the exiled regime. 
Then he threatened: “We shall return to 
Poland—but only with arms in hand.” 

In Scotland, the Polish Army arrested 
a London-bound captain who wanted to 
confer with representatives of Warsaw 
about going back to Poland. Two days 
later, after Warsaw protests and British 
investigation, they let him leave. London 
Poles said crewmen aboard Poland’s 39 
merchant ships wanted to serve the Al- 
lies against Japan, with which the War- 
saw government is not at war. They 
claimed nine vessels had already steamed 
to British ports, under their orders. 

Meantime, twelve of the 30-odd Lon- 
don leaders of the Polish Socialist party 
signed a statement recognizing the War- 
saw regime.’ Four Polish generals retired 
by the old London government for dis- 
loyalty appealed to soldiers “to fulfill 
their patriotic duty and return to Po- 
land.” 


Pon 


No Free Lunch? 


Col. Frank Howley, American military 
governor in Berlin, gave a cocktail p 
last week for more than 100 Allied offi- 
cers. The Americans, British, and French 
faded away as dinnertime approached. 


e 


The Russians stayed on, cheerfully wait- 
ing for food. Finally, when an interpreter 
explained that the party was over, Col. 
Gen. Alexander V. Gorbatoff blinked at 
the odd American custom of unaccom- 
panied liquid refreshment, accepted it 


amiably, shook hands all around, and 


went home. That social incident illus- 
trated the plaguing misunderstandings 
that held up the four-power administra- 
tion of Berlin for more than a week. 


Who's in Charge? On July 5 the 
Americans entered six southern districts 
in Berlin, the British six in the north. 
Courteously but firmly, the Red Army 
told them that the two-month-old Rus- 
sian administration of the city stood un- 
changed. 

Bewildered Anglo-American military 
government officers, attempting to take 
control, could do little more than adopt 
some of the established regulations for 
civilians—among them the Russian sys- 
tem of paying laborers with two meals 
a day, instead of one meal and cash. Red 
Army administrators replied to inquiries 
that they had received no orders to with- 
draw. As usual, disagreement at a higher 
level had held up the coordinated ad- 
ministration of Berlin. 

Some 1,100,000 civilians lived in the 
Russian-controlled area, about 900,000 in 
the British, and 750,000 in the American. 
The western Allies, cut off from their 


zones of occupation in Western Ger- © 


many, assumed that all Berliners would 
continue to be fed from the Russian- 
controlled farmlands around the capital. 

The administration of Berlin was fur- 
ther complicated by the divergent policies 





NEWSWEEK, JULY 23, 1945 





ie een 





of its conquerors. The Russians permitted 
schools, cabarets, political parties, and 
fraternization in their area; their Allies 
wanted a much slower return to normal 
German life, though last week they lifted 
their fraternization ban (see page 53). 
Recognizing that they could not tum 
back the clock, the British and Americans 
agreed to make an exception of Berlin 
and reached temporary agreement with 
the Russians. 


The Four-Headed Mayor: The Al- 
lied Control Council announced a new 
government for the capital: the Kom- 
mandantur. Made up of the four Allied 
military commandants—Gorbatoff, Amer- 
ican Maj. Gen. Floyd L. Parks, Brit- 
ish Maj. Gen. L. O. Lyne, and French 
Maj. Gen. Geoffroi de Beauchesne (who 
was still waiting for the demarcation of 
the French area), the Kommandantur 
held its first meeting July 11. Operating 
under the Control Council, it proposed to 
unify Berlin’s administration. Its first 
chief was Gorbatoff; the other comman- 
dants would serve in rotation every 15 
days, issuing their orders in English, 
Russian, French,, and German. Simul- 
taneously, the Allies declared, they had 
made a temporary arrangement to feed 
the capital, presumably through the ex- 
change of food and goods between the 
different Allied zones. 


oor 


Franco Freedom 


On July 18, 1986, Gen. Francisco 
Franco flew from the Canary IMands to 
Spanish Morocco to lead his favorite 


. Moorish troops into battle against the 


Spanish Republic. Last week, on the 
eve of celebrating his Falangist party’s 
favorite holiday, Generalissimo Franco 
brooded unhappily in the Palace of El 
Pardo near Madrid. In almost continu- 
ous session with his Cabinet, he struggled 
for a way out of an opportunist’s dilem- 
ma: How to make his government more 
palatable to the western democracies 
without submitting his own resignation. 

Since spring, a powerful Cabinet 
group had urged the Caudillo to swing 
away from Fascism and toward the de- 
mocracies by declaring Spain a mon- 
archy, temporarily without a king. The 
San Francisco resolution specifically 
barring Franco Spain from United Na- 
tions membership gave backing to their 
arguments. Last week the reluctant Cau- 
dillo took the first step. 

He dropped José Luis Arrese, Secre- 
tary General of the Falange party, from 
his Cabinet. Then he had his hand- 
picked Cortes (Parliament) pass the so- 
called Spanish Bill of Rights (Fuero de 
los Espajioles), The bill, described as the 
Spanish Magna Charta, proclaims the 
fundamental freedoms of the Spanish 
people, with certain all-inclusive reser- 
vations—among them any action against 
the Generalissimo, the Catholic Church, 
or the “unity of the nation.” 





























ETHOCEL 


A DOW PLASTIC THAT'S BEAUTIFUL BUT TOUGH | 


Plastics men know ETHOCEL is made of Dow Ethylcellu- 
lose, the toughest cellulose plastic commercially available. 
They also know it gives new beauty and color—not only 
to decorative trim but to molded products such as radio 
cabinets, telephones, and containers. Full information on 
this and other Dow plastics is available to postwar planners. 


Dow Plastics include: Styron, Styraloy, Suran, Saran Film, Ethocel and Ethoce! Sheeting 





on /f 
y 


THERES A 


tee 8 


COMING 


Of course mother will forget the cookie incident 
in a hurry. We think she’s likely to be more 
excited about another kind of ‘‘trimming’’— 
the spanking new and colorful plastic trim 
that brightens her kitchen. It’s made from 
ETHOCEL, a Dow plastic used for table and 
counter edgings, decorative strips and wall 
trims. Here, beauty and utility unite to give 
the modern kitchen that finishing touch which 
so delights the American housewife. 


ETHOCEL is decorative because it is colorful 
all the way through. It is practical because it is 
an extra tough and stable material, easily 
handled and cleaned. Made into rods, bars, 
tubes and special shapes, its use extends far 
beyond the kitchen to furniture, bars, show- 
cases, fixtures—in fact, wherever a durable 
trim can give an added note of beauty. Plan 
with ETHOCEL. It fits perfectly the modern 
conception of interior decoration. 


THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY 


MIDLAND, MICHIGAN 
New York ¢ Boston ¢ Philadelphia « Washington « Cleveland « Detroit 
Chicago « St. Louis « Houston ¢ San Francisco « Los Angeles « Seattle 





DOW 


PLASTICS 








F you’ve ever tried to match a fabric, 
you know how hard it is to dupli- 
cate colors exactly, even in materials of 
the same manufacture. The reason for 
that has been the gradual absorption 
of color by the large, resilient rolls used 
to apply and set the dyes in textile mills, 
causing variations of shade. 


This problem led the G.T.M. — 
Goodyear Technical Man—to begin 
the development, many months ago, of 
a synthetic rubber roll that would not 
soak up color. And from our famed re- 
search laboratory has come another 
Goodyear advance — a new textile roll 
superior to former types in many ways. 


This new roll is built of a special syn- 
thetic rubber compound that is highly 
resistant to the acids and alkalis con- 
tained in many dyes —elements that 
caused former rolls to soften, swell and 
become color-absorbent. Because of this 
it holds its shape, doesn’t become por- 
ous and color-soaked; hence applies 
dye with far greater uniformity. 


Wa... ¥: 


But most important improvement of all 
is a new Goodyear-pioneered method 
of building the entire roll, from the 
metal core outward, of the same high 
quality resilient rubber stock — elim- 
inating the need for an intermediary 
layer of hard rubber formerly neces- 
sary to anchor the softer cover. This 
new construction gives Goodyear rolls 
longer usable life, makes them more 
economical as well as more efficient. 


Now, longer-wearing Goodyear syn- 
thetic rubber rolls, built by this new 
process, are available to all industries 
that use rolls in processing — glass 
plants, tanneries, steel and tin plate 
mills. You will find them as standout 
in every way as you have always found 
all Goodyear industrial rubber prod- 
ucts. To consult the G.T.M. about them, 
write: Goodyear, Akron 16, Ohio or 
Los Angeles 54, California. 


FOR BELTING, HOSE, MOLDED RUBBER PRODUCTS, 
PACKING AND TANK LINING, built to the world’s 
highest standard of quality, phone your nearest 
Goodyear Industrial Rubber Products Dis- 
tributor. 


Right on the Color Beam 


ne 





( EVV A 


x 
ry 
- A 
_ 


4 


a | 








J 


a 


22S. VAA'A we .°4 











ELECTRONICS 


PIE ELECTRO! 





1G PILOT 


GIVES FINGER-TIP PLANE CONTROL 





MAGNETICS 








ELECTRO-MECHANICS 












OPTICS 





CARBURETION _ 





HYDRAULICS 





a 


THIS, TOO, 1s Bendix’... .CREATIVE LINK BETWEEN SCIENCE AND FLIGHT 


The miracle of electronic control; the 
flexible power of electricity; the unerring 
precision of the Electric G yroscope—these 
are the basic advantages contributed to 


flight by the Bendix Electronic Automatic 


Pilot. 


Flying with amazing softness and smooth- 
ness, the Bendix. Pilot sets new standards 
for automatically controlled flight of air- 
craft. This Electronic Robot thinks faster 
than the human mind—acts faster than 
the human hand. And because it is di- 
rected by the Bendix-developed Gyro Flux 
Gate Compass, this all-electric pilot keeps 
the plane steadily on its heading. Small 
wonder that flyers say, “It flies the plane 
better than I can!” 


Automatically synchronous with the atti- 


e IN CREATIVE ENGINEERING 
thy 


= 


tude of the airplane, this ever ready serv- 
ant assumes control, literally, at the “slip 
of a switch.” Weighing less than the 
lightest human pilot, impervious to 
changes in altitude and temperature, re- 
quiring far less precious instrument panel 
space than any of its predecessors, the 
Bendix automatic pilot is truly a land- 
mark—or better—“skymark”’—in aviation, 


Developed by an organization world-re- 
nowned as First in Creative Engineering, 
and backed by an unparalleled array of 
research and engineering talent, the Ben- 
dix Electronic Pilot takes its place with 
hundreds of other scientific devices and 
controls created by Bendix to speed Vic- 
tory now, and to make your life easier, 
happier, safer in the years ahead. Over 


o 





3000 engineers, 12 great research labora- 
tories and more than 30 plants are pointed 
toward this purpose. 
BENDIX AVIATION CORPORATION 
DETROIT 2, MICHIGAN 


x * 


BENDIX* PRODUCTS: automotive brakes, carbu- 
retors, landing gear « BENDIX RADIO:* radio, 
radar « BENDIX MARINE: controls +» ECLIPSE* 
MACHINE: starter drives + MARSHALL ECLIPSE: 
brake lining + ZENITH:* carburetors » STROM- 
BERG: aircraft carburetors, fuel injection » FRIEZ:* 

eather instr ts * PIONEER:* flight instru- 
ments * ECLIPSE: aviation accessories « ALTAIR: 
hydraulic systems +» SCINTILLA: aircraft ignition 
and many others. *Reg. U. S. Pat. Off. 


end 


COPYRIGHT 1965 BENDIX AVIATION CORPORATION 























NewsweEEK, Jury 23, 1945 







e FOREIGN AFFAIRS ° 





Russians Pull Out, Poles Move In 
to Build Again on Ruins of War 


Recognition of Warsaw Regime 
Eases Internal Tension and Helps 
Speed Job of Reconstruction 


Little authentic news has come from 
Poland since the Russians rolled into that 
often-partitioned country. Before the 
creation of the Provisional Government 
of National Unity three weeks ago, the 
Warsaw Poles and the London Poles 
hurled charges and _ countercharges 
against each other which only succeeded 
in blackening an already clouded pic- 
ture. NEWswEEK’s Moscow correspond- 
ent has just completed a two-week tour 
of Poland, where he found wide support 
of the new government. From Warsaw 
he sends this story, 


The Red Army is moving out of Po- 
land. Its vehicles stream eastward by the 
thousands. There are still Russian com- 
mandants west of Cracow but their 


chief task is to deal with troop move- ~ 


ments. According to Premier Edward 
Osubka-Morawski, the Reds will have 
left Poland proper in about two months. 
Obviously, however; they will still use 
and to some extent control certain com- 
munications which lead across Polish ter- 
ritory into Germany. Moreover, the Rus- 
sians do not intend to hand over com- 


pletely to the Poles the German territory © 


in the west until the peace conference 
formally incorporates it into Poland. But 
Poland has every assurance that it will 
be independent. 


The State Takes Over: In the wake 
of war, Poland is a rich country with 
magnificent possibilities and tremendous 
problems (see Raymond Moley’s Per- 
spective, page 96). True, the devastation 
caused by the war and nearly six years of 
German occupation is considerably 
greater than one would have expected 
and this devastation isn’t only material. 
The Germans, in one way or another, 
killed some 6,000,000 Polish citizens, 
half of them Jews. On the other hand, 
Poland’s astonishing vitality is speeding 
its recovery from the aftereffects of the 
German occupation and from that men- 
tal confusion which inevitably existed 


‘among large segments of the population 


as a result of the co-existence of the two 

governments. 
Poles in every walk of life express re- 
alles Vice Premier Stanislaw Miko- 
former Premier. of the govern- 


ment-in-exile, didn’t form a national gov- 
ernment with the Russian-sponsored 
Poles when he first had the opportunity 
to do so two years ago. This, they say, 
prolonged the period of uncertainty and 
the position of international “lopsided- 
ness” in which Poland continued to live, 
though there was no recognition of the 
Warsaw government by Britain and the 
United States. That, more than anything 
else,-caused inner tension in the country. 
Now that recognition has finally come, 
the wish expressed on many sides is that 
Britain accept wholeheartedly the new Po- 
land and not try to keep up the illusion 
that there is a fourth- 
dimension “another Po- 
land” somewhere else. 

Everybody—even the 
most oppositionist ele- 
ments—agree that the old 
Poland has gone. The 
upper and middle classes 
have lost all their capital 
and as a result all prob- 
lems of capital invest- 
ment and management 
of large-scale industry 
have inevitably fallen 
into the hands of the 
state. The state must 
solve other immense 
problems. The most im- 
portant are the recon- 
struction of cities, trans- 
portation, and the re- 
patriation of Polish citi- © 
zens from abroad. These 
potential repatriates run 
into several million. The 
government has appealed 
to them to come back. 


On Short Rations: 
The Provisional Govern- 
ment of National Unity 
is generally accepted as 
the only possible one 
under present conditions. 
Its greatest and most ac- 
tive support comes from 
the working class and 
the trade unions, whose 
membership is expected shortly to rise 
from 800,000 to 1,500,000. Proportion- 
ately, the unions are making the big- 
gest active contribution to the recon- 
struction and the government’s success. 
As Jan Stanczyk, Minister of Labor, said 
to me: “They are having a difficult time 
and are working on their enthusiasm 
rather than on stomachs.” He added 
that filling people’s stomachs is one of 


51 








the most urgent tasks of the new gov- 
ernment. , 

The government also has support from 
a large part of the Polish peasantry. 
The peasants have gained, in the long 
run, from land reform, though they are 
faced with many material difficulties at 
the present time, principally a° grave 
shortage of agricultural machinery and 
livestock. The army, filled with national 
pride at the prominent part it played 
in smashing Germany, likewise favors 
the compromise government. This feel- 
ing of pride, combined with immense 
satisfaction at contemplating the enor- 
mous sea coast Poland has acquired on 
the Baltic in place of the puny Gdynia 
corridor, extends to those rank and file 
Home (resistance) Army elemenis which 
have enlisted in the Polish Army. 


The Drones Whisper: Another part of 
the peasantry has a wait and see attitude. 
The reconstruction effort required by the 
country is so immense that what the gov- 
ernment has done in the last few months, - 








Associated Press 


Homeward by boxcar, exiles return to a new Poland 


though substantial, is still small in com- 
parison with what remains to be done. 
The shortage of consumer goods and live- 
stock is the peasants’ chief concern. 
This absence of consumer goods also 
has an adverse effect on the food situa- 
tion in the towns. Premier Osubka- 
Morawski considers it a very healthy sign 
that even now, during the most difficult 
pre-harvest period, food prices in the 





52 FOREIGN AFFAIRS 


-open market (though still very ‘high) 
have declined in recent weeks. 

Politically, Mikolajézyk’s entry into the 
government enlisted wide support from 
the peasants, with whom he is unques- 
tionably popular. An astonishing demon- 
stration of this took place against the 
tragic background of Warsaw’s ruins on 
July 1. The four party organizations sup- 
porting the government marched past a 
reviewing stand and the peasants gave a 
special ovation to Mikolajczyk. Since then, 
the Vice Premier has been convinced 
that Poland is on the right road and is 
confident of his meet Ae great future. 

What is left of the Polish middle class, 
with the exception of ‘the progressive 
part of the intelligentsia, is the least en- 
thusiastic .about the government. The 
middle class suffered from the German 
occupation more than the workers- and 
peasants did. With the destruction of all 
solid bases for an economic existence, a 
large part was reduced to living on its wits. 

While living conditions remain diffi- 
cult and the cost of living is far out of 
line with workers’ poor pay, there is a 
stratum of the population which con- 
tinues to live much as it did under the 
Germans—with a tendency to take the 
line of least resistance. These le 
have lost the habit of regular work and 
are somewhat slow in acquiring it. They, 
more than anyone else, are indulging in 
whispering campaigns against the govern- 
ment and particularly against the. pres- 
ence of Russians in Poland. 





os! Newsweek 


Poorer and Wiser, Britain Adds Up 
War’s Cost in Goods and Prestige 


Harry Kern,’ NEWSWEEK foreign and 


war editor now on a tour of Europe,: 
sends this story of Britain’s position after 


the end of the German war. 


Dusk creeps over London between 10 
and 11 these long summer evenings. 
Then Big Ben lights up above the 
Houses of Parliament—a sign that peace 
has returned to Britain. But the glow of 
Big Ben is dim in the soft English air. 
And as a symbol of peace it is dim too, 
for Britain has another war to be fought 
in the Far East and the price of victory 
in Europe has yet to be paid. 

That price is written across the face of 


Britain. The crowds that spill over into- 


the street in Piccadilly and the Strand 
reflect the extreme housing crisis that 
reaches from Claridges to the blitzed 
East End. Ships that clutter the great 
docks in the bends of the Thames under- 
line the fact that Britain is now a debtor 
nation and can pay for vital imports with 
exports and with nothing else. The slow- 
down strike of stevedores that makes the 
winches in the docks grind slowly illus- 
trates the impending industrial crisis. 
Finally, the government uneasily awaits 
election results. The word “caretaker” is 
well chosen for it. For no matter which 
side wins the election, Britain is going 














Turnabout in Dutch: In the Southern Holland concentration camp of Vught, 
some 7,000 collaborationists and Dutch Waffen SS members are imprisoned where 
the Germans held captured Dutch underground fighters. Clad in the prison suits 
worn by their preliberation predecessors, they await final trial, clearing land mines 
and booby traps, living on minimum civilian rations. Here a freed Dutch soldier 
puts a Waffen SS man who once stood guard over him at Vught through push-ups. 


sto have essentially a caretaker regime—a 


government to bring it through ‘the tran- 
sition between war and peace. 

Queues that line up for everything from 
fish to buses tell why this is going to be a 
long and difficult transition period. There 
is much more slack to be taken up than 
after the last war. The air of prosperous 
imperialism that once radiated from the 
busy traffic of Trafalgar Square and the 
majestic ‘stretch of the Mall has all but 
vanished. Couples dress for dinner in 
West End hotels and restaurants once 
more, but the income garnered from the 
corners of the earth that made London 
the most expensive of world’s capitals 
has been dried up by war. 


Export or Die: Scotch and soda in a 
fashionable bar may cost $1.25 or more. 
But, except for such luxuries, prices and 
the supply of goods are rigidly regulated. 
Furthermore, rationing works because a 
small, compact Britain is easier to ad- 
minister than the United States and be- 
cause the consumer has been tied to par- 
ticular retailers. Rationing and other con- 
trols will remain in ‘force for probably 


‘as many as five years. All political par- 


ties, whatever their electioneering prom- 
ises, admit this. 

The controls will have to remain be- 
cause pent-up demands: for goods and 
services cannot possibly be satisfied. But 
they will have to remain also because 
Britain must export or die. Priority will 
not be given the home market when such 
things as radios are again in mass manv- 
facture. Instead, a certain percentage 
will be set aside for export. London cal- 
culates it must double its prewar exports 


in order to put its trade ‘on a. balanced 


basis. It hopes for cooperation from the 
United States. Otherwise it is going to 
use its debts as Dr. Hjalmar Schacht used 
German debts—as a lever to force other 
countries to trade with it. Thus competi- 
tion from Britain will be tough, because 
it plans accepting voluntary reduction 
of the standard of living for years in 
order to export. 


The Needless Bogey: There is, a sil- 
yer lining to the cloud, however. Britain 
can write off unemployment as a prob- 
lem for the next few years to come. For 
example, large numbers may be tem- 

orarily thrown out of. work in aircraft 
actories. But they, will soon be reab- 
sorbed. The big need is and will remain 
labor—labor to build millions of new 
houses, repair war-worn factories and 
railways, and_ staff’ reconverted._ indus- 
tries. Yet unemployment remains a bogey 
in the public mind. Long years of the 
dole have left a deep mark on the na- 
tional consciousness. 

Fear of unemployment. plays a large 
part in the present unrest in the; ranks 











a sil- 
ritain 
prob- 
. For 
tem- 
rcraft 
reab- 
main 
new 
and 
ndus- 
ogey 
f the 
e na- 


large 
ranks 





Jury 28, 1945. 


FOREIGN AFFAIRS 58 


er rrr 


of labor. Labor is drifting to the political 


deft. Communists stand ready to take the 


utmost advantage of this. In fact, the 
growth of the Communist party repre- 
sents one of the most vital movements 
of English politics today. 

The Reds’ increased strength does not 


fully appear at elections. Where it does — 


show, however, is in increased 
Communist control of labor 
unions. The Communists have 
wormed their way into positions 
such as shop stewards and have 
concentrated on organizing such 
vital industries as transportation. 
Furthermore, the Reds operate 
under leadership of enthusiastic 
and tough men. The most im- 
portant Communist is not the 
nominal leader, Harry Pollitt, 
but William Rust, the editor of 
The Daily Worker. 


What the Tory Thinks: © 
Nonetheless, Conservatives are 
not unduly worried over the rise 
of the Communists. Here is a 
picture of future developments 
as they see it: ; 

First, the Communists will 
succeed in a long campaign to 
join the Labor party (they near- 
ly succeeded at the last Labor 
party conference). Next, they 
will attempt to drive present 
Labor leaders further and fur- 
ther to the left, probably accus- 
ing them of being more Tory 
than the Tories. Finally, the 
Labor party will split wide open 
with Communists heading the. 
revolutionary wing. 

' The British accept Russian 
hegemony in Europe with fatal- 
ism. Furthermore, they often seem to ex- 
pect a Russianized Europe as inevitable. 
Sentiment for the Soviet has cooled 
noticeably. The British now frankly ad- 
mit for the most part that they cannot 
measure up to the- power of their two 
great Allies, the United States and Rus- 
sia. It is a hard admission for the onetime 
world’s greatest empire to make, but it is 
a part of a new and wiser Britain. 


oo 


A Good Slug of Binge 


Startled correspondents used to won- 
der about the sign splashed over the wall 
of Field Marshal Sir Bernard L. Mont- 
gomery’s headquarters: “Are you 100 per 
cent full of binge?” But to-Monty, who 
hates liquor like poison, the word “binge” 
simply meant “pep.” Last week, in New- 
port, England, the Town Council solemn- 
ly debated with just what kind of binge 
to celebrate when Montgomery accepts, 
the freedom of the city later this month. 

Mayor G. W. Armstead, mindful of 
Montgomery’s horror when Russian of- 
ficers pressed toasts upon him in Frank- 
furt last month. (NEwsw:FK, June 25), 
bravely proposed thai ue iownspeople 


et along. on lemonade and orangeade 
uring the great day. The council, 


shocked by this light regard for freemen’s 
rights, overruled him with dispatch. 
Meanwhile, Monty arrived in Berlin after 
recovering from a week's attack of ton- 
sillitis without an old British remedy 
—a good slug of rum and lemon juice. 





Mrs. Mussolini Speaks 
Behind the barbed wire of the Terni 


internment’ camp in Italy last week, a - 


pale, middle-aged hospital cook talked 
of love and death. Sometimes she 
screamed with rage; occasionally, in frus- 
tration, she pounded her fists on the 
table. Between screams, Donna Rachele 


‘Mussolini, a simple peasant woman who 


for 36 hectic years lived in almost com- 
plete obscurity as Il Duce’s wife, spilled 
out her sad tale to Ann Stringer of the 
United Press. Excerpts: 

@ “Mussolini’—she never called him 
Benito—became her common law hus- 
band in 1909. They planned to go to the 
United States and raise a family, but he 
changed his mind. “He felt himself too 
powerful, and his friends persuaded him 
to betray the workers. But his sympa- 
thies were always with the working class.” 
@ Clara Petacci, Mussolini’s pretty mis- 
tress who died with him, was the only 
one around him who really had anything 


.to do with the Germans. “They’ve done 


well to hang her . . . Mussolini never 
had anything to do with women [or] let 
them have any influence over him. That 
was propaganda. Just to ruin him.” 


Associated Press 
Rachele (in Fascist days) stood up for Mussolini 


@ “Everybody” is to blame for Musso- 
lini’s signing the Axis pact—everybody 
from Marshal Pietro Badoglio up to 
the king. “They all blame Mussolini . . . 
while Badoglio’s mistress lives in Switz- 
erland with millions of dollars.” 
@ Her future plans: “I have started to 
write a book, a story of my life and his 
life.” She might ‘he her young- 
er children—Romano, 18, and 
Anna Maria, 16—to the United 
States and give lectures and in- 
terviews. She “would very much 
like” to’ bring her children up as 
Americans. 


s 
anal 


If You Can't Be Good 


The bottom suddenly dropped 
out of the German market in 
wolf howls and yoo-hoo whistles 
last week. Allied soldiers and 
luscious frauleins could stroll to- 
gether through elm-shaded 
streets—and look stern MP’s in 
the eye without fear of a fine. 
General of the Army Eisenhower 
and Field Marshal Montgomery 
relaxed. the ban on fraterniza- 
tion with German adults. 

Hundreds of soldiers who had 
met German girls secretly began 
to walk and talk with them in 
allowable “public places.” But 
one private predicted GI’s would . 
see friuleins less often: “Lots. of 
fellows did it just for the hell of 
it.” German girls exulted. A 
charmer named Hilda. winked at 

' T/Sgt. George Hahn of Phila- 
delphia. “Das ist gut, fraterniza- 
tion,” she sighed. “Hilda better 
get that Statue of Liberty look 

out of her eyes,” Hahn whispered. “I’ve 
got a girl at home I’m going back to,” 
Soldiers still could not visit German 
homes or entertain Germans in their own 
quarters. They presumably could not 
dance, play games, or drink with Ger- 
mans. But with a tantalizing situation 
eased, high officers wondered what would 
happen to venereal disease rates. The 

British Army’s had already doubled since 

the Rhine crossing. American venereal 
disease in Germany jumped from 77 new 

cases in the week ending April 20 to 957 

new ones in the week ending May 25. 


ro 


France: Pick and Choose 


Last winter no Frenchman claimed 
that the Provisional Government of Gen. 
Charles de Gaulle was based on the le- 
gality the French cherish. ,But few .saw 
any alternative to the strong-willed man 
who guided France through the ecstasy 
of liberation, the later economic misery, 
the crises of the purge, and the resur- 
gence of snarled French politics. 

This spring, however, the maneuvers 
of French politics became too strong to 


be ignored, and the battle between Left 








54_FOREIGN AFFAIRS. 








Leopold's Choice: In his mountain retreat at St. Wolfgang, Austria, the King of 
the Belgians once more refused to abdicate this week. But after visits with his 
mother, his brother, and his Premier, Achille van Acker, he decided not to go back 
to Belgium. At home his people expressed their divergent views: by tying flowers 
to the gate of the royal palace and by scrawling out a single blunt word of advice. 





and Right grew too bitter for mere ora- 
tory in the impotent Consultative Assem- 
bly. De Gaulle had promised a general 
election when the deportees came home 
from Germany. Last week he offered 
the nation its choice of government. 

Next October, French men and women 
will pick an assembly of 600. By a simul- 
taneous referendum, they can declare the 
new body to be a Constituent (constitu- 
tion-drafting) Assembly (which the Left 
wants), or a traditional Chamber of Dep- 
uties, operating under the 1875 consti- 
tution, with a Senate to be elected later 
(which the Right desires). If as expected 
they grant constitutional powers to the 
new assembly, it will appoint a new pro- 
visional government to rule until the 
constitution is ratified by another popular 
referendum. 

The test for the General lies in the 
national decision whether or not to limit 
the powers of the new assembly to con- 
stitution-drafting and approval of a few 
executive acts. If France approves the ex- 
tension of a powerful provisional govern- 
ment through next winter, de Gaulle will 
win his first election. If it returns national 
authority. to its new parliament, he will 
probably resi: : 


Australia: Ben the Austere 


John Curtin’s beloved Parliamentary 
Labor party voted the way he would 
have .wished. No successor could have 
pleased the hard-working late Prime Min- 
ister of Australia more than the graying 
best friend and adviser who often stroll 
with him down Canberra’s tree-lined 
streets:' Joseph Benedict Chifley, his 
drawling, lean-faced treasurer. On July 
18 the Governor General, the Duke of 
Gloucester, swore in Chifley ‘as Aus- 
tralia’s sixteenth Prime Minister and its 
third in ten days. 

Nearing 60 and a midnight-oil burner, 
Chifley hesitated 
to stand for the La- 
bor party leader- 
ship which would 
automatically make 
him Prime Minis- 
ter. James H. Scul- 
lin, onetime Labor 
Prime Minister who 
ne Chifley his ° 

rst Cabinet post 
in 1929, finally per- 
suaded him. By a 
reported 45 to 15 


ee ah _Newsweex, JuLy 28, 1945 


Ruropean Photos 





vote, he returned. his chief opponent, 


Francis Michael Forde, to Deputy Prime ° 


Minister after a record short term of 
seven days as head of the government 
following Curtin’s death on July 5. 
Ironically, Forde’s absence as United Na- 
tions delegate at San Francisco had 
given. Chifley a chance to shine as 
acting Prime Minister during Curtin’s 
last illness. (Dr. Herbert V. Evatt re- 
mains in the Cabinet as Minister of Ex- 
ternal Affairs and Attorney General.) The 
tall, calm, pipe-smoking ex-locomotive 
engineer with the. ruddy face and rasping 
voice had impressed even conservatives. 
Laborities looking toward 1946 elections 
saw him as a vote-getting white hope. 
Wearying of wartime “austerity” which 
Chifley himself had helped clamp upon 
them, some voters had already showed 
signs of flirting with the refurbished Lib- 
eral party led by the golden-vyoiced Rob- 
ert Gordon Menzies, who lost the pre- 
miership to Curtin in 1941. Chifley, a 
Catholic mid-roader, could hold such 
voters in line better than the fire-eating 
radicals of his party’s left wing. The new 
Prime Minister won his own parliamen- 
ae in 1940 against a Laborite who 
him a reactionary and a conserva- 

tive who called him a Communist. 


roam 


‘India: Somebody Failed 


“The conference has .. . failed... 
I wish to make it clear that the respon- 
sibility for the failure is mine.” 

With these weary words from Viscount 
Wavell, Viceroy of India, another of the 
interminable battles for Indian indepen- 
dence ended last week—in the usual 
hopeless stalemate. For 19 days Wavell 
had conferred with Indian political lead- 
ers at Simla in efforts to lead them to 
agreement on the latest British proposals 
toward self-government for India. The 
convention got off to a good start. Lead- 
ers representing all parties in the coun- 
try were amenable to the major British 
concessions. But they lost sight of the 
main objectives in bitter interrtal pow- 
er rivalries. 


Jinnah Won't Play: Wavell attempted 
to soothe the violent antagonism be- 
tween Mohandas K. Gandhi's All India 
Congress party and the separatist Mos- 
lem League of Mohammed Ali Jinnah 
by proposing that they have equal vot- 
ing strength in the Viceregal Council. 
Jinnah promptly protested that such an 
arrangement would doom his party to an 
ineffectual minority. He refused to let 
his party participate in it, thereby wreck- 
ing the conference. 

In personally taking the blame for fail- 
ure of the conference, Wavell tried to 
ease the high tension between the two 


- rival parties. But he made it clear that, 


with the war against Japan to be finished, 
no riots would be tolerated—and the pres- 
ent British Government of India would 
continue in office. 





arty 


oes f} S&S eh, 


ry & 


ote tlle wt et ob LS 








“You may fire when ready, Gridley.” As Commodore George Dewey in 1898 gave this historic command at Manila Bay, Captain C, V. Gridley of 
the Olympia was ready, and the flagship opened fire. The U. S. Asiatic Squadron was ready, and by winning the greatest naval triumph in American 
history at that time, opened the world drama in which the latest act was the triumphal fulfillment of General MacArthur’s promise, “‘I will return.” 





































unt 
the 
en- o 
vell 
ad- 
| to ‘ 
sals FTER the recent victories in the For decades the National City 
rhe Philippines, The NationalCity | Bank has been helping business ACTIVE OVERSEAS BRANCHES 
ad- Bank of New York through its. and handling financial transac- ARGENTINA ENGLAND 
‘ish Manila Branch was ready to _ tions all over the globe. Today its oo me 
the _ aid reconstruction and to stimulate § World-Wide Banking System is Plaza Onice 11, Waterloo Place 
ow- business between the Islands and the foremost of all American ascuaes iisces 
the States. The Bank building, banks, both in number of overseas BRAZIL Bombay 
used as a fortress by American branches and in size of staffs. The res Calcutta 
ve forces in the final fighting, soon § Bank provides credits, exchange pal MEXICO 
dia was readied for its peacetime job. and latest information on markets. Mame ee 
(os- This tradition of readinesss at To find out how our widespread yo — P Bra! 
nah Manila goes back 43 years, to the _ facilities can assist in your opera- Cristobal 
vot- time when the banking organiza- tions in the Philippines or else- CHILE es cone sy 
ira tion which later became the ,geq_ where in the world, get in Santiage rade 
he National City branch set its AS*@A touch with National City dectetat ion Somn 
let rootsdeepin the businesslifeof -4 M3R.¥\ officers at Head Office or Bogota Arecibo 
sck- * the great Pacific trade center. Branches in New York. ———e — or, 
Ma: 
ail- oan CUBA Pea 
to THE NATIONAL CITY BANK OF NEW YORK Cuatro Camis | REP. OF PANAMA 
hat Head Office: 55 Wall Street, New York + 65 Branches in Greater New York La Lonja Pesemne 
: Caibarien URUGUAY 
ed, j Cardenas Montevideo 
aracas 
“tember Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 














NEWSWEEK, JULY 23, 1945 








+’ CANADIAN WEEK ° 





King of Glengarry 


When William Lyon Mackenzie led 
a short-lived “rebellion” against the gov- 
ernment of Upper Canada (now Ontario) 
in 1837, one of his most outspoken op- 
ponents was Alexander Macdonnell, 
Glengarry County, first Roman Catholic 
Bishop of the colony. On July 17, Wil- 
liam Lyon Mackenzie King, Prime Min- 
ister of Canada, grandson of “The Little 
Rebel,” was nominated at Alexandria as 
Liberal candidate for Glengarry’s seat in 
Parliament. 

King’s nomination was a political ne- 
cessity arising out of his personal defeat 
at Prince Albert, Sask., in the federal 
elections (NEWSWEEK, July 2) in which 
he led his party to victory. Dr. W. B. 
MacDiarmid, elected Liberal member 
for Glengarry with an overwhelming 
majority, Shad resigned in King’s favor. 

Glengarry, smallest constituency in 
Canada, was_a safe riding for King to 
choose: It has voted Liberal in five of the 
six elections since the riding was formed 
in 1924, and opposition parties indicated 
they would not oppose his election by 
acclamation. But King had more senti- 
mental reasons for his choice. Steeped in 
history and tradition, Glengarry is a per- 
fect background for the role the Prime 
Minister believes his most important mis- 
sion: mediator between English and 


French Canada. Originally settled most- 
ly by Scottish Catholics (as a young 
priest Bishop Macdonnell brought 500 
of his own parishioners from Scotland), 
Glengarry has seen its adventurous young 
Scots seek greener fields, while French- 
Canadians have moved in from Quebec 
to buy up its farms. The 1941 census 
gave its population as 8,237 English- 
speaking, 10,121 French. 


oo 


A Place to Live 


For most of the last ten years Canada’s 
housing shortage had aroused only spo- 
radic interest. But the accelerated war- 
time movement away from the farms and 
the vital shortages of manpower and 
building materials had made it harder 
and harder to find adequate shelter in 
cities. Now, the mounting tide of service- 
men returning from Europe made hous- 
ing Canada’s most critical immediate 
problem. 

With housing front-page news in pa- 
pers from coast to coast, a delegation of 
mayors from most large Canadian cities 
last week put the problem up to federal 
officials at Ottawa. Urban centers needed 
about 357,000 houses, including a back- 
log of 320,000 units, minimum annual 
tequirements of 24,000, and replacement 
of about 13,500. The government had in- 








NS SARS SAS 
Acme 


Heil and Fling: Some 6,200 Canadian veterans (part of more than 50,000 arriv- 





International 


ing from Europe this month) were on the Queen Mary when she docked in New 
York last week. Many have 30 days’ leave before deployment to the Pacific. Left, 
Capt. Bus Ryan, Vancouver, B.C., waves his Essex Scottish kilt froma porthole. Right, 
a CWAC and other Canadians show souvenirs: a Nazi flag and a pair of panties. 


dicated available men and_ materials 
would limit production in the first year 
after V-E Day to 50,000. 

Finance Minister J. L. Ilsley gave the 
government's answer in general terms: 
(1) Labor for house construction and for 
building materials would be given a high- 
er priority rating than labor for war in- 
dustries; (2) houses for veterans and 
some supplies (such as soil pipe) would 

given emergency rating: (3) key con- 
struction workers would be released from 
the armed forces; (4) rigid controls over 
housing would assist construction of low- 
cost homes for sale and rent and discour- 
age the building of luxury homes; (5) the 
government would share financial risks 
with builders under the National Hous- 
ing Act; and (6) as they became avail- 
able, wartime government and service 
buildings would be offered to municipali- 
ties for emergency shelters. 

Later the government indicated more 
specific plans. The government-owned 
Wartime Housing, Ltd., which built 20,- 
000 homes for war workers, would re- 
lease some of these for veterans. It plans 
to build 10,000 during.the post V-E Day 
year. Veterans Land Administration is 
building another 3,000 houses. 

But the most important development 
was not yet official: leading insurance 
companies were expected to agree short- 
ly to help meet the crisis by putting up 
$10,000,000 with $90,000,000 of govern- 
ment funds to build 25,000 homes; with 
the government guaranteeing a 2%* per 
cent dividend and profits limited to 5 or 6 
per cent. The government needed to act 
quickly: housing was the one question on 
which all opposition parties might unite 
to force a political crisis in Parliament 
next month. 


Pam 


Mercy Afloat 
For the first time since 1939, the Nas- 


' copie, Arctic mercy ship, sailed up the 


St. Lawrence River from Montreal last 
week with her lights'ablaze. She was off 
on another of her annual trips to ice- 
locked outposts of the Royal Canadian 


Mounted Police, the Hudson’s Bay Co., . 


and religious missions in the Canadian 
Arctic, which will lead her 60 miles north 
of the magnetic pole. . 

But even with her decks stripped of 
anti-aircraft and deck guns; the Nas- 
copie’s holds and available deck space 
could take only 1,900 of the 2,100 tons 
of medical supplies, food, clothing, house- 
hold utensils, mail, and Christmas par- 
cels for hosts of Arctic and sub-Arctic 
posts. The Mount Murray, tough little 


_river schooner, had to be commissioned 


to carry 200 tons of her cargo. 

One reason the Nascopie’s cargo was 
heavy: For the first time since she started 
her Arctic voyages in 1913, the Riswaonic 
carried supplies to be given free to Eski- 


. mos as their share of the family allow- 


ances the government started to . pay 
Canadians July 15. 





#2! i 












“The fire didn’t do much 
harm, but look at our records!” 






















_ ] “A small fre started in 

nd one of the firm’s filing 

lans rooms. But thanks to quick 

Day action on everybody’s part, it was 

L 1S out in a few minutes, with little 

- damage done to the building.” 

nce ” 
ort- 

| up 

ern- 

vith 

‘per 

or 6 

act 

1 on 

nite 

rent 

Nas- 

the 

last 
; off 

ice- ,; : 
a” 2 “Just as we were breathing easy “In the excitement, water and *‘We had to have every record pains- 
lian again and congratulating ourselves chemicals had seeped through our takingly looked up and reconstructed 
rth on what a lucky escape we had, our office equipment, destroying some of our —at a big cost for overtime and outside 
, manager rushed in and shouted, ‘Look at most valuable papers. And our fire work. Now, a Valuable Papers Policy is as 
| of the records, they’re ruined!’ ”’ insurance did not cover this loss!” much a ‘must’ as our fire insurance.” 
% 
Nas- : 
yace Remember: your insurance against fire, windstorm, a protective policy of their own. Indemnity Insur- 
a and burglary does not cover a loss like this. Valuable ance Company of North America offers you such a 
par- papers are so important to a business that they need policy. Just-ask your own Agent or Broker about it. 
ctic 
ittle 
Insura Company of North America, founded 1792, oldest 
ned pass rcs et aoe dby” J c - INSURANCE COMPANY OF 
North America Companies which write practically all types of RTH AMERICA 

was Fire, Marine, Automobile, Casualty and Accident insurance 
rted through your own Agent or Broker, North America Agents are S, : 
o listed in local Classified Telephone Directories. “COMPANIE O Nilalelpshia 
ski- . 
ow- Bia 

pay INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA © INDEMNITY INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA © CENTRAL INSURANCE COMPANY OF BALTIMORE 


THE ALLIANCE INSURANCE COMPAAAY OF PrilLADELPHIA @ NATIONAL SECURITY INSURANCE COMPANY © PHILADELPHIA FIRE AND MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY 

















Baia: Accident or Spite? 

The 3,150-ton Brazilian cruiser Baia 
had operated off Dakar in the last world 
war and had survived convoy duty be- 
tween Rio de Janeiro and Port of Spain, 
Trinidad, in this one. Since V-E Day it 
had been patrolling the Africa-Natal air 
line to protect home-flying United States 
troops. There it met disaster on July 4 
as it steamed past the Rocks of St. Paul, 
about 100 miles off the coast of Per- 
nambuco. An explosion sent the cruiser 
and more than 300 of its crew of 427 
to the bottom of the South Atlantic. It 
was the worst catastrophe in Brazilian 
naval history. 

A British freighter picked up a few 
members of the Bafa’s crew. Others 
landed from rafts on the penal island of 
Fernando de Noronha. The survivors told 
of their sufferings as they floated on open 
rafts for five days. Many of the sailors, 
crazed by the tropical sun and lack of 
food and water, leaped into the sea and 
were eaten by sharks. Four United States 
Navy technicians aboard the ship were 
unreported. President Getulio Vargas de- 
creed three days of national mourning. 

What happened to the Baia is not 
known. It may have struck a submerged 
mine. Its boiler may have exploded. Ad- 
miral Dodsworth Martins, commander of 
the naval center, said it was _pos- 
sible that it had been torpedoed by a 
German submarine which surrendered six 
days later, on July 10, in Argentine wa- 
ters, more than 2,000 miles to the south. 


Enter the Seapent: The winter sky 
was still dark at 7 a.m. as Morse signals 
informed Argentine naval authorities at 
Mar del Plata that a German submarine 
was off the port and wanted to surrender. 
A ship was sent out as a guide, and halt 











¢ PAN AMERICAN WEEK * 











The Inter-American 


Padilla: Forced out 


an hour later the U-530 moved slowly 
up the roads with no flag flying, and tied 
up next to the Argentine ship Belgrano. 
Its youthful crew looked hungry, even 
undernourished, but still cocky and ar- 
rogant. 

-The submarine arrived unexpectedly, 
unwelcome, and untimely for an Argen- 
tine Government already struggling with 
a full budget of international problems. 
Two suggested explanations for the be- 
lated appearance of the U-580: (1) It 
had sunk the Baia in a last fanatical ges- 

















Money Is Ammunition: Political exiles from the Dominican Republic are cir- 
culating over-printed Mexican peso notes as part of their campaign to arouse demo- 
cratic sentiment against the President-Dictator, Generalissimo Rafael Leonidas 
Trujillo. The slogan says: The tyranny of Santo Domingo shames the continent; 
Trujillo, the tyrant, must fall. Trujillo recently announced the reestablishment of 
political parties, long illegal, but their leaders are said to be Trujillo henchmen. 





NEWSWEEK, JuLy 23, 1945 
SRL SE ES EET, 











ture of defeated Nazism; or (2) it had 
landed important Nazi refugees in Ar- 
gentina and then given itself up. The 
second seemed the more likely answer: 
Rumors of secret landings from the sea 
had been current in Mar del Plata for 
several days. 

One thing was certain: The Argentine 
Government was anxious to dispose of 
the matter as quickly as possible. It 
started an investigation, but even before 
completing this, it issued a communiqué 
absolving the submarine of landing refu- 
gees or sinking the Bafa—all on testimony 
of the German crew. 

While Argentines debated the legal 
status of the U-boat, its crew was in- 
terned in a pleasant recreation camp at 
the Mar del Plata Naval Base. Here the 
crew members played chess and swung 
on ropes for exercise, unmolested by in- 
agate reporters who were barred from 
the neighborhood. 


aa 


Padilla: Down or Up? 


The commanding and eloquent Eze- 
quiel Padilla, Mexican Secretary of For- 
eign Affairs since 1940, has played two 
roles: He has been outstanding in Pan- 
American affairs, and at the same time 


. active in Mexican internal politics. The 


two characters have not been entirely 
compatible. Pan-Americanists lauded him 
as the “Man of America.” But to many 
sensitive Mexicans he was “Mr.” Padilla, 
a title by which they suggested that he 
was too subservient to the yanqui. Per- 
sonal enemies also used this charge 
as a weapon. 

As Padilla’s prestige increased through- 
out the hemisphere, his standing at home 
declined correspondingly. He became an 
international figure at the San Francisco 
conference. But his close cooperation 
with Washington there and at the earlier 
Chapultepec conference smothered his 
Mexican ‘Presidential boom and even 
brought demands for his resignation. 

Last week his enemies won: Padilla re- 
signed as Foreign Secretary. “I consider,” 
he said, “that the international policy 
which my enemies have criticized and 
attacked is the patrimony of the people 
and I do not believe I have the right to ex- 
pose it to irresponsible factional attacks.” 

Some observers saw another reason for 
Padilla’s resignation. If he is to run for 
the Presidency on July 7, 1946, he must 
resign public office at least six months in 
advance. Padilla’s campaign was not 
flourishing, and he said he had asked his 
supporters to discontinue it. But at last 
reports his headquarters were still open. 
And now he had an issue. 

@ The campaign of Miguel Aleman, out- 
standing candidate for the Presidency, 
was going full blast. Every day newspa- 
pers were fat with full-page advertise- 
ments promising the support of labor and 
farm organizations. If Aleman read all 
his own propaganda, one columnist said, 
he would have no time left to campaign. 





a 











1945 


iia en 


<a 


t had 
n Ar- 
. The 
swer: 
ie sea 
ta for 


ontine 
se of 
le. It 
»efore 
niqué 
-refu- 
mony 


legal 
As in- 
mp at 
re the 
wun 

by ine 
| from 


Eze- 
f For- 
d two 
| Pan- 
» time 
. The 
atirely 
d him 
many 
adilla, 
rat he 
. Per- 
sharge 


‘ough- 
home 
me an 
ncisco 
ration 
earlier 
d his 
even 
mn. 
lla re- 
sider,” 
policy 
1 and 
seople 
- to ex- 
tacks.” 
on for 
in for 
» must 
ths in 
s not 
ed his 
at_ last 


open. 


an, out- 
dency, 
wspa- 
ertise- 
or and 
ad all 
t said, 
paign. 








a 
" Last week hundreds ¢ 


saw Switzerland 
by television... 










Tomorrow thousands will go 
to Europe by CLIPPER 


DAY the world routes of the Fly- 
ing Clippers are being operated in 
the national interest. Tourists cannot fly 
the Atlantic. But once wartime restric- 
‘tions are lifted, thousands of Ameri- 
cans who have never visited Europe 
will want to go there by Clipper. 
. And they will be able to go because 
Pan American’s postwar fares aboard 
100 and 200- er Clippers, now 
on order, will be within their reach . .. 
They will have time to go because a 
“two weeks’ vacation” will give them 
twelve days on the Continent. 


New York to Geneva postwar— 
17 hours and 40 mins. 

Have you been buying War Bonds 
and holding them . . . planning to “get 
away somewhere” after the war? 

Would you like to spend 12 days in 
one of the most beautiful countries in 
the world? Then you will most cer- 


tainly want to visit Switzerland, where 


-15,000-foot mountains are reflected in 


mirror-like Alpine lakes and where an 
industrious and highly skilled people 
have built up a world Conigens without 
raw materials or “natural advantages.” 
Switzerland's hotel facilities are un- 
equaled—and undamaged by war. 

Wherever you plan to fly after the 
war—Geneva, Paris, London, Rio de 
Janeiro, Alaska, the South Pacific, 
China or Hawaii—remember that in 
the last 17 years Pan American World 
Airways has carried over 3,250,000 
passengers ... A record unequaled by 
any other international airline. 


PAN AMERICAN 
Wortp AIRWAYS 
The System of the—Flying Cifppers 





ON STATION WNET 


TELEViIEWERs: Visit, foreign lands 
by “video.” Dial in “Wings of 
Democracy,” Pan American’s new 
television program. Every Monday 
evening over NBC’s New York 
Station, WNBT. 





Since it was founded, Pan 
American World Airways has 
completed more than 346,- 
000,000 miles of overseas flight 
—a total greater than that of 
any other international airline. 





FIRST air service across the 
Pacifie (1935) 


FIRST plane service across 
the North Atlantic (1939) 








co aie S| 


¢ BUSINESS * LABOR * AGRICULTURE * AVIATION °° 





War Labor Board Gets Tougher 
Toward the Strikers Who Defy It 


Stands Ready to Break Union 
Refusing to Obey Government 
in New York Newspaper Tieup 


The War Labor Board grimly set out 
to break:a strike last week, and, if a final 
showdown resulted; to break a union. 
Beginning July 1, the strike had crippled 
seventeen New York City newspapers 
with a total daily circulation of about 
6,000,000. The union was the indepen- 
dent Newspaper and Mail ~ Deliverers 
Union, with 1,700 members, many of 
them truck drivers who carry the city’s 
dailies to thousands of newsstands. 

Back in April the union and the Pub- 
lishers Association of New York® began 
to dicker for a new contract. The union 
asked a $5-a-week raise, a manda 
two-week vacation with pay, and 
leave and severance pay. The publishers 
said that the union, through its closed 


shop and $500 initiation fee,:had re- 





®Members: The New York Times, The yo York 
Herald Tribune, The Dail ly News, The Daily M 
The New York Joumal- merican, The New York 
Sun, The New York Post, The New York World- 
Telegram, The Wall Street Journal, The Brooklyn 
Citizen, The Long end Daily Star-Journal. 
Non-members affected: Brooklyn Daily Eagle. 


Daily Racin Form, 


Telegraph 
ae Guide. The Post and Bronx 


and The Daily aes 


Home News suspended publication. PM and The 
Daily Worker were not affected. 





Pi 


The Long Island pasy eg The = -g Home News, | 
The h, The 


fused to furnish enough men to do the 
contract job at straight-time pay; over- 
time had boosted wages from a normal 


.$50 a week under the Little Steel for- 


mula to $80 or even as much as $120. 
Even so, the publishers indicated a will- 
ingness to talk it over. 


The Government Orders: But ne- 
gotiations promptly broke down in an 
angry over the union’s main 
demand: a new welfare fund. The pub- 
lishers were invited to support it with 
$150,000 a year, figured at 3 per cent of 
the deliverers’ payroll. “Preposterous,” 
declared the publishers. 

State and Federal authorities failed to 
bring the publishers and union back to- 
gether. The union, to comply with the 
Federal Smith-Connally Act, served a 
30-day ‘notice that it would strike at 
expired, June 80, when the old contract 


The National Labor Relations 


supervised the strike ‘vote and cer- 
thea. * negli result. Efforts to ae —_ 
minute agreement again roke down 
with each side accusing the other of will- 
fully refusing to compromise. 
The War Labor Board stepped into 
this tangle on June.14. It ordered the old 
contract extended, «: 


the workers to stay on their "jobs. The 
union n balked. The acer said the union, 


International 


promised that . any. 
new one would be whéactive, ‘and told 


iy: ee 
NEWSWEEK, JULY. 


bee we no power to extend a contract or 

e NLRB-supervised strike vote: 
Let rate publishers a to arbitrate and 
the. men_ would pi eg The WLB stood 
pat: Arbitration could begin after the 
strike was called off, not before. 

On June 30 the strike began. Mailers 
and delivery men by the hundreds re- 
ported they were ill and couldn’t work 
that day. All were missing by midnight, 
and newspaper deliveries in the nation’s 
biggest city almost came. to a halt. 


The Union Disobeys: The union ig- 
nored repeated WLB orders to go back 
to work. In desperation, the WLB last 
week revoked the union contract, its 
closed shop and preferential hiring 
rights, and declared that any new con- 
tract would not be tetroactive. This was 
government ‘authority for the publishers 
to go ahead and break the strike, hir- 
ing men wherever they could. 

‘first action of the publishers’ as- 
sociation was to appeal to the ‘strikers 
to go back:to work. Then. it announced 
that those who. did not would be dis- 
charged. It also lifted restrictions on over- 
the-counter sales of papers at the news- 
Edis when Tiere wate a taeeenody 


stands were ‘established in New York 
years, ago—soon “to. on 
the’ streets. Most © t Sat Scent 
morning pa ont” ae afternoon 
papers sold for 10 cents on streets and 
commuter trains, but a 10-cent Sunday 
Times, minus feature sections, brought 
as much as $1. 


Publishers had:notified advertisers they 


couldn’t expect ‘much circulation during 
the strike, and advertising revenue 
e of The 


dropped: accordingly. But 





Held away from newsboy by police, a striker is stabbed in a later melee 




















A Better, Longer Life... Through Optical Science 


Today, science, using the 

methods made possible 

| ‘by optical instruments, 

helps you live a longer, healthier and 

happier life. Today, your baby, if he 

is between one and two years of age, 

can expect to enjoy more than sixty 

years of life. In 1900, his life ex- 

pectancy would have been but 
forty-eight years. 

Of the many specialized branches 
of science which contribute so much 
toyour life, bacteriology isamong the 
mostimportant. It is the basis of mod- 
ern medicine and the controlling 


science in the production of pure 
foods. Itsdevelopment was made pos- 
sible only through the use of the mi- 
croscope . . . furthered by such far 
reaching developments as the quan- 
tity production of these instruments 
by Bausch & Lomb. 

In the creation, through chemistry, 
of modern lifesaving drugs, optical 
instruments of research and control 
are of vital importance. 

Better vision, too, which makes life 
more enjoyable and safer for mil- 
lions, is the result of the application 


_of optical:science to problems of eye- 


sight correction and conservation. 

Great as have been the achieve- 
ments to which optical science has 
contributed, greater things are yet to 
come, developments which will be 
paced by new and better optical ins 
struments from America’s leading 
optical institution . . . Bausch & 
Lomb Optical Co., Rochester 2, N. Y. 


BAUSCH & LOMB 


ESTABLISHED 1653, 


Vv 


Mabers of Optical Glass and a Complete Line of Optical Instruments for Military Use, Education, Research, Industry, and Eyesight Correction and Conservation 





NOBLE SCOTCH 


J feplhe Ws 


( Mite Yi 


OLD 
ANGUS 


BRAND 


4 
hae 


fe 


pres 
: 4 


Scotch Whisky,.86 Proof 
tional Distillers Products Corporation, New York 


62 BUSINESS 


News, normally over 2,000,000 daily, 
reached 675,000 in over-the-counter and 
makeshift deliveries. The Times, _nor- 
mally 450,000, reported about 135,000. 


Significance -——~— 


The strike points up the fact that the 
demand for an employer-financed wel- 
fare fund has, become a major objective 
in many unions. Musicians, garment 
workers, and clothing workers already 
have forced employers to yield on this 
point. Miners are after it. And the 
biggest union of all, the United Auto 
Workers (CIO), has announced that 
its chief postwar demand will be a 
welfare fund to give workers medical 
and life insurance, hospitalization, and 
rest and recreation centers. 

The threat of conflict between return- 
ing nonunion veterans and unionized ci- 
vilians (NEwswEEK, May 21) also is ap- 
parent. The Daily News observed edi - 
torially that 500,000 young New Yorkers 
would be coming home from the war be- 


fore long, many in search of. truck- 


driving jobs. . 


Most important, the WLB obviously _ 


has concluded that if it cannot break the 
strike, the strike will break the WLB. 
The Truman Administration and the new 
Secretary of Labor, Lewis B. Schwellen- 
bach, cannot afford, politically, to have 


- Federal authority over labor relations suf- 


fer a major defeat. 


5 al 


And Printers, Too 


Striking members of the International 
Typographical Union (AFL) in Bayonne 
and Jersey City, N. J., Birmingham, Ala., 
and Fort Wayne, Ind., were notified by 
the War Labor Board last week that 
the WLB, not the union, would stipu- 
late contract conditions ‘unless the 
strikers go back to work. The union 
hinted that the strike might spread to 
Baltimore and Chicago. 38 


Kitchens: On the Level 


After a good look at.some market sur- 
veys indicating that nine out of ten fami- 
lies need new kitchen equipment, the 
American Gas Association last week per- 
suaded a group of kitchen-cabinet and 
gas-appliance manufacturers to agree on 
standardized sizes. The winning argu- 
ment was that a smoothly streamlined 
kitchen shouldn’t belong exclusively to 
the housewife who can afford a custom- 
built job. 

Although selected counter areas in any 
kitchen may be lower, the agreed-upon 
height of working space is $6 inches 
above the floor. To prevent toe stubbing, 
cabinets, stoves, nad bike fixtures are to 
have a toe cove, 3 inches deep and 4 
inches high. Counter tops are to extend 
25% inches from’ the wall, allowing half 
an inch overhang from the cabinet base. 


Qn 


Steel: Short Sheets 


Reconversion was’ délayed. last week 
by an inadequate supply of light, flat 
rolled steel, wn to the industry as 
sheet and strip. bred asi 

Manufacturers of: autos, ‘¥éfrigerators, 
and stoves, now demanding big tonnages, 
began to lain. Because steel men 
have been confident that there would be 


‘plenty for the Pacific war and for recon- 


version, too, the situation ‘bewildered 
many of the experts. War Production 
Board officials began to dig out an ex- 
planation: ee 3 

@ Many war contractors who received 
cutbacks this year did not cancel their 
steel orders, particularly’ if those orders 
covered light-gauge steel. 


.@ The WPB relaxed its Controlled Ma- 


terials Plan on July 1,. itting mills to 
accept any civilian orders that. wouldn't 
interfere: with war Contracts. There was 
a rush for light-gauge steel. And some 
war contractors still holding CMP “tick- 











sur- 
umi- 
the 


per- 
and 
» on 
rgu- 
ned 
r to 
om- 


any 
pon 
shes 


in g, 


half 








Jury 23, 1945 63 





ets” used them to get sheets. They could 
do this because the tickets specify ton- 
nage but not thickness. At the same time 
they went into an easy, open market for 
heavier kinds of steel with which to fill 
their war orders. 

The scramble for light-gauge steel 
moved so quickly that on July 3, the 
WPB ordered all strip and sheet users 
to cancel any orders that would give them 
more than a 45-day supply. The previous 
limit was a 60-day supply. On July 4, the 
WPB prohibited any sheet and strip or- 
ders until further notice. Then, on July 
18, officials decided they could ease up 
again, and ruled that steel mills could fill 
any open spaces in July and August roll- 
ing schedules ,with new orders. In ad- 
dition, smaller manufacturers were given 
permission to place orders anywhere they 
could, through September. 

But rolling mills last week were pro- 
ducing sheet and strip at only 75 per 

cent of capacity. Their problem was man- 
power.’ The WPB and the War Man- 
power Commission planned a drive to get 
9,000 more workers into steel plants. 
Moreover in 89 separate projects, $34,- 
000,000 of new rolling-mill facilities re- 
cently were approved. Another $21,000,- 
000 worth probably will be. 


Om 


Books on the Ceiling 


Microfilm, which carries V-mail over- 
seas and reduces bulky records to easy 
portability, has a new job in Army hos- 
pitals—bringing books to badly wounded 
and immobilized veterans. It is done with 
a new projector which throws microfilm 



























































GREW uP 
TOGETHER. 4 





@ The toaster... iron... radio... washing machine 
and all the rest . . . these were the infant industries 
when plastics, too, was young. We have grown up 
together. For plastics . . . through efficient, economical 
insulation, helped open the way for electrical equipment 


expansion. 


The great INSUROK family of precision plastic 
products ... made by Richardson... has shared proudly 
in this growth. For many years easy-to-handle Laminated 
_ _INSUROK has been punched, drilled, sawed, turned 

and milled into millions of insulation parts for, and by, 
" industries everywhere. INSUROK is equally as ready 
today to help you improve tomorrow’s products. Why 
not consult Richardson Plasticians now? Feel free to 


write ... without obligation! 





INSUROK Precision Plasttes 


i.e @alalee pO \ma@ul re 





64 BUSINESS 








SL OES 





* 


NEWSWEEK, JULY 23, 1945 








reproductions of book pages onto the 
ceiling. 

Eugene B. Power, president of Uni- 
versity Microfilms, Ann Arbor, Mich., 
thought up the idea when he was in bed 
with a knee injury. Finding that an ordi- 
nary microfilm projector wouldn’t do, he 
developed the ceiling projector in col- 
laboration with Argus, Inc., also of Ann 
Arbor. Together they organized Projected 
Books, Inc., to make life more pleasant 
for disabled veterans. 

A few experimental models are in use 
at Halloran General Hospital, Staten Is- 
land, N.Y., and Percy Jones General 
Hospital, Battle Creek, Mich. 

Ceiling projectors weigh about 20 
pounds each and will sell at about $100. 
Book films will cost 50 cents to $1.50 
each, depending on length. 

The patient can turn pages backward 
or forward with push buttons. One dis- 
abled veteran who couldn’t move an 
arm, leg, finger, or toe found he could 
push buttons with his chin. The discov- 
ery that he could do something for him- 
self, and doing it, a nurse said, gave him 
a tremendous psychological lift. 


Pn 


Rails: Delaying Tactics 


Two carefully calculated moves against 
the Interstate Commerce Commission 
class-rate order to raise Eastern and re- 
duce Southern and Western freight 
charges on lighter shipments (NEWSWEEK. 
May 28) were made last week: 


? 


eT iO 


@ The railroads asked for a delay until 
next April 1. Effective date of the order 
had been set.for Aug. 30. 
@ The Wisconsin Public Service Commis- 
sion, apparently in accord with plans 
developed at a closed conference of 
Eastern shippers in Columbus, Ohio, 
three weeks ago, petitioned the ICC to 
reconsider. 

Southern governors will meet in Mo- 
bile, Ala., July 20, to plan a counterattack. 

Because it pondered the issue six years 
before acting on equalization, the ICC 
probably won't reconsider. But a delay 
now seems likely. 


em 


Ships: On Dry Land 

Soon after Pearl Harbor, the Chicago 
Bridge & Iron Co., never before a ship- 
builder, began to convert a large tract of 
farmland into a shipyard. The site was 
Seneca, Ill., on the Illinois River 1,000 
miles from tidewater. 

The yard’s first Landing Ship Tank 
was trundled to the launching Dec. 13, 
1942, on a train of eighteen hydraulic- 
lift transfer buggies. This LST and 156 
others eventually splashed into the river 
to~begin a long journey down the Illinois 
and Mississippi to the Gulf, and from 
there to invasion duty. 

Seneca’s 157th and last LST was 
launched June 8, 1945. Soon afterward 
workmen began to dismantle the yard. 
Last week, a government ban on pub- 
licity about Seneca’s war story was 


Oe ee Se 
gE eee eS 


1—On two outside ways keels are laid 

over frttracks. When ready ships are 

slid to%center way by means of 18 
buggies or hydraulic hand cars. 3 


3—Two winch trucks roll 
boat to center way. 


4—On center ste 
a huge wood sled slides 


gies are turned 
to move toward launc «knees H 
ship side- 
ways into the Illinois river. 





lifted. The Chicago Sun published a 
dramatic aerial photograph of the yard 
at peak activity. 


Po 


The Week in Business 


SHoEs—Military leather requirements 
have been reduced; by October civilian 
shoe production, government planners 
claim, will about equal the 1940 rate. 
But canvas and gabardine shoes may be 
with us for years, in view of the world 
shortage. 

Soar—Washington knows the soap 
supply is tight, but predicts no rationing. 

DDT—Flies and mosquitoes were abol- 
ished wholesale at Jones Beach, N. Y., 
by a DDT fog blanket. About 98 per cent 
of current DDT output—now estimated 
around 40,000,000 pounds a year—goes 
to the military; about 2 per cent for ex- 
perimental and public-health purposes. 

Prose—New York grand jury will in- 
vestigate alleged price fixing in artificial 
limbs. The War Department and Con- 
gress are interested. 

Hovuses—The government hopes 400,- 
000 privately financed houses will be 
built in the next twelve months. 

JeEP—Willys-Overland Motors demon- 
strated its postwar jeep with a speed 
range of 8 to 60 miles an hour and a 
power take-off pulley to help do the 
chores. Besides pulling and hauling, the 
jeep is said to be able to deliver mail, 
dig a well, herd cattle, and spread ma- 
nure better than its wartime brother. 


aie in jacks 
on the jes lifts ship 6 





Where LST’s were born: The shipyard at Seneca, Ill., 1,000 miles from the sea, is no longer a secret 





WORKIN’ ON 
THE RAILROAD 


All the Livelong Day with 
International. Power 


r- WILL BE a mighty peacetime song— 

“Workin’ on the Railroad.” Roadbeds, 
tracks, and equipment have taken a ter- 
rifie pounding. A great reconstruction 
job must be done. 

Look for International Industrial Power 
on that job. Look for International Trac- 
tors working all the livelong day along 
the right-of-way. 


International works all the livelong 
day, powering off-track equipment—work- 
ing with bulldozers, scrapers, compres- 
sors, generators, welding and cutting 
equipment, cranes, mowers and a variety 
of other types of machines. 

Note that phrase—"off-track equipment.” 

And because they are “off-track” in con- ' 
trast with “rail-bound,” International Trac- 
tors don’t have to be hauled to a siding 
to let trains through. Schedules are kept. 
The job is done quicker. In addition to 
railroad construction and maintenance- 
of-way, International Crawler Tractors, 
Wheel Tractors and Power Units, with 
full-Diesel or carburetor-type engines, are 
assigned to scores of jobs in terminal, 
shop and yard. 

International Power, toughened and 
improved by war, will be working on 
great peacetime jobs in many other in- 
dustries, too, when the all-clear signal is 
given. International Power—rugged, de- 
pendable—is ready to help America and 
the world achieve new conquests on the 
frontiers of peace. 


INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY 
“180 N. Michigan Avenve Chicago 1, Illinois 


RE-SET. YOUR SIGHTS FOR V-) DAY ... Give to 
the blood bank . . . defend the food front... buy 
extra war bonds... fight inflation. . 








SAVING FUEL IS 
OUR BUSINESS 





ee 


$12,714 Saved for 


QICHELIEV 


> It’s always good 
business to save fuel. 
Now it is a good 
way to serve our 
country, too. Fuel 
saving is a wartime 
“must.” So there is 
a patriotic thrill to- 
day for plant owners 
and engineers who 
can make a genuine reduction in fuel con- 
sumption. This is especially so when lower 
costs are accompanied by labor savings and 
oe in boiler room efficiency. 
his happened at the plant of Sprague 
Warner-Kenny Corporation, home of the 
famous Richelieu brand of quality foods. 
Steam formerly cost 62 cents per thousand 
pounds. After installing Iron Fireman it cost 
only 26} cents—58 per cent saving. Fuel and 
labor savings amount to $12,714 a year! 
America is a stronger nation because of 
the job Iron Fireman is doing in the Sprague 
Warner-Kenny Corp. America would be still 
stronger if a way could be found to make 
your plant more efficient. Perhaps it can be 
done. Will you give us a chance to study 
your plant at our risk? Iron Fireman Mfg. 
Co., 3747 West 106th Street, Cleveland 
11, Ohio, Pioneer and Leader in its field. 
Plants at Portland, Oregon; Cleveland, | 
Ohio ; Toronto, Canada. Dealers everywhere. | 


| 


IRON FIREMAN 


Automatic Coal Stokers | 
INDUSTRIAL « nienamecnetesied ¢ RESIDENTIAL | 























te SS . Bg SRRNER STN 
Sprague Warner-Kenn —— supplies 60, 
4 — Its head, tr. Nathan Cummings, has 





P through his ability not only 

to build a progressing organization, but also through his 

skill in eliminating waste. His selection of Iron 
firing is a typical example of his ingenuity, 





66 BUSINESS 


Newswesk, JULY 23, 1045 





BUSINESS TIDES 








A Clever Trick Designed Just to Fool You 


by RALPH ROBEY 


There is one final point of major 
importance in connection with the so- 
called Murray full employment bill, 
now pending in the Senate with the 
Administration’s blessing, which it is 
imperative to get clearly in mind if 

our appraisal of this measure is to 
e on other than a sentimental basis. 


This is the bill, it will be 


to be haphazard and wasteful, as in 
the ’30s, or carefully planned out be- 
forehand. Well, clearly it would be 
better to have the spending planned. 
And that, so the argument concludes 
—which is where the trick comes in— 
is just what this bill does. 

In other words, the sponsors of the 
.. bill would have us believe, 





recalled, which makes it 
mandatory for the Presi- 
dent, in January of each 
year, to estimate how much 
government spending will 
be necessary to provide em- 
ployment for all who will 
want jobs in the twelve 
months starting the follow- 
ing July. Four weeks ago in 
this space (June 25) we 
pointed out the almost in- 
superable statistical difficulties con- 
fronting «anyone trying to make such 
estimates, and two weeks ago (July 
9) we explained that each 1 per cent 
error in the underlying estimates 
would involve $2,000,000,000 of gov- 
ernment spending. (We said _ this 
would be equal to $600 for each fam- 
ily in the United States. Of cdurse, as 
several readers have pointed out, this 
should have been $60 for each family. ) 

Such basic practical considerations, 
one would think, would be sufficient 
in themselves to defeat this proposal, 
and under ordinary circumstances this 
perhaps would be true. But in the 
present case it cannot be counted on. 
It cannot be counted on because of 
an especially clever argument—tricky 
argument is perhaps a better phrase— 
which proponents of the measure are 
using to win supporters. 


This argument, in brief, is that of 
course we all hope that there will be 
lenty of jobs in private enterprise 
or all who want to work, and the bill 
ecifically provides that the Presi- 
ent “shall set forth ...a ren 
program for encouraging” such jobs. 
But suppose that in spite of all this— 
in spite of every reasonable encour- 
agement being given private enter- 
prise by the government—there still 
are not enough jobs to go around. 
In that event, so the argument con- 
tinues, there is no practical alternative 
to having the government step in and 
relieve unemployment. That was 
roved by the experience of the ’80s. 
e only question, then, so the 
ponents of this measure contend, is 
whether such government spending is 








‘there is no effective alternative to gov- 


this measure doesn’t intro- 
duce any new concept into 
government spending to re- 
lieve unemployment; _ it 
merely puts such spending 
upon a scientific basis in or- 
der that we may obtain 
-maximum benefits with the 
minimum of waste. 

Now if that. argument 
was really true there would 
be much to say in favor of 
this bill. In a period of prolonged mass 

unemployment, for which there is no 
conceivable excuse in this country, 


ernment relief, and obviously it is the 
part of wisdom to have such spend- 
ing carefully planned. But that is 
not what this bill proposes. 


Under this bill the spending is not 
undertaken for the purpose of elimi- 
nating unemployment, or of providing 
jobs for the unemployed. Under this 
measure the spending is undertaken 
solely on the basis of some bureau- 
crat’s guess that unemployment will 
develop a year hence unless such 
spending is undertaken by the govern- 
ment. To use an analogy, the differ- 
ence between this bill and the type 
of government spending we had in 
the ’80s, is the difference between 

our having an operation when you 

ave an acute attack of appendicitis, 
and having some government bureau- 
crat order you to have an operation 
because in his opinion you are likely 
to have an attack sometime next year. 
And just as in that case you never 
would know whether, if you had not 
undergone the operation, you actually 
would have had the attack of appen- 
dicitis, so with the spending proposed 
in this bill we would never know 
whether the anticipated eos ge 
ment would have occurred had the 
spending not taken place. 

Surely we in this country are too 
level-headed, and have too much com- 
mon sense, to let ourselves in for any 
such program as this. It is one of the 
most outlandish proposals ever offered 
to the American public. 























that plane you gave up for VICTORY 


Cruising in excess of three hundred miles per 
hour along the routes of the leading airlines, 
the dependable DC-6 will be ready soon to 
take you anywhere over land or sea, with 
comfort, speed, economy and assurance be- 
yond anything you have ever imagined. 


GREATEST NAME IN AVIATION DOUGLAS DC 6 
a 


Sister Ship of the Famous C-54 Combat Air Transpert 








Due of a series sliustrating 


SHINE MISTER 7 


A good shine makes a lot of difference 
whena man wants to look his best. That’s 
why shining shoes is a service of big 
ee today—ready at a nod to 

o the job up brown, or black, or tan. 

Simple as it is to get our shoes shined, 
how many of us know that it is wax in 
the polish that actually produces the 
shine. Wax is used because it provides 
both luster and protection, and tons of 
it are needed every year to keep the na- 
tion’s shoes in good condition. 


But this is only one of hundreds of uses 
for wax, which Cyanamid supplies in 
many different types from a variety of 
interesting sources. For example, there 
is Beeswax, the framework of the honey- 
comb... Carnauba, found on the leaves 
of a Brazilian palm tree... Candelilla, 
which grows on a Mexican plant... 
Ceresin and Montan, of mineral origin 


... Ozokerite, from coal... Chinese 
Wax, from an insect... and Spermaceti, 
product of the whale. 

Huge quantities of these waxes are 
needed as the basic ingredient of pol- 
ishes for floors, furniture, auto- 
mobiles, and many other pur- 
poses. They are also used in 
the making of waterproof paper 
and textiles, in cosmetics, soaps, 
varnishes, adhesives, crayons, 
phonograph records, dolls, 
ointments, lubricants and sealing 
compounds and a wide range of 
other products. 


Asaleading chemical company, 
Cyanamid is constantly increas- 
ing the utility of waxes through 
better processing methods... and 
adding to the variety through re- 
search and the development of 


new synthetic waxes. This is one of the 
scores of fields in which Cyanamid 
chemistry is helping to improve and 
protect he products used by all of us 
in everyday living. 


American 
Cyanamid Company 


30 ROCKEFELLER PLAZA, NEW YORK 20, N. ¥. 


MOLDING THE FUTURE THROUGH CHEMISTRY 








Newsweek, JuLy.23, 1945 











PERCE 








TRANSITION 


aaa 























Die-hard: At an internment camp out- 
side Rome, FRAv MARGARETE HIMMLER 
shrugged when she learned her husband, 
Heinrich Himmler, had committed sui- 
cide. Captured in the Austrian Tyrol, 
Frau Himmler last heard from the Ges- 
tapo chief when he telephoned her from 
Berlin at Easter. Both were Nazis when 
they married in 1928. Still a Nazi, Frau 
Himmler predicted: “The war will go on. 
America and England will never be able 
to work with Russia.” 


Homage: At Hyde Park, N. Y., GEN. 
Dwicnt D. EIsENHOWER paid an unan- 
| nounced visit to the grave of his late 
Commander-in-Chief, Franklin D. Roose- 
-yelt, before leaving for Europe. While 
Mrs. Roosevelt stood by, General Eisen- 
“hower put a wreath on the grave, said a 
silent prayer, and saluted. 


signed: In Washington, Cot. OvETA 
utp Hossy, 40, the first woman to wear 
Wac uniform in this war, resigned as 
“director of the Women’s Army Corps to 
-retum to her family and her husband’s 
|. mewspaper, The Houston (Texas) Post. 
|} “I feel that my mission has been com- 
pleted,” Mrs. Hobby said. “The corps is 
| well established.” Her successor: Cot. 
ESTRAY BATTLE Boyce, 48, former 
deputy director of the Wac. 












Retired: Sanuro Kurusu, Japanese en- 
by to the United States at the time of 
Pearl Harbor, is “getting along now as 
‘an active farmer up in the cool mountain 
town of Karuizawa” on Honshu, the 
' Tokyo radio reported. The broadcast add- 
ed that Kurusu’s “peace” mission to the 
United States had been “a Herculean 
effort to avert the current war situation.” 


Suits: In New York, GLonia Swanson, 


separation from her fifth husband, W11- 
LIAM M. Davey, 55, a retired business- 


e man. Miss Swanson, who married a 
d Jan. 29, said he abandoned her in April. 
d She asked $1,000 weckly alimony and 
is $25,000 counsel fees, explaining: “My 


husband is worth over $10,000,000,” 

In Los ‘Angeles, Bansara Hutton, 
twice-divorced dime-store ‘heiress, filed 
suit to divorce Cary Grant, British-. 
born movie actor, after three years of 
marriage. The charge: extreme mental 
cruelty. Following a separation of sev- 
eral months, ths Grants were reconciled 
until last February when the heiress said: 
“We have decided that we can be ha 
pier living apart.” Grant, who was di- 
vorced by the actress, Virginia Cherrill, 
renounced all claim to Miss Hutton’s $40,- 
000,000 when he married her. Miss Hut- 
_ton’s previous husbands were the late 
Alexis Mdivani, ian prince, and 
r Haugwitz-Reventlow, er Dan- 

count. She has partial custody of her 
0n, Lance Reventlow, 9. 


, N. Y. 





45, former movie actress, filed suit for | 





Comic Spirit: In New York Mayor Fi- 
ORELLO H. La Guarpia has had a won- 
derful time reading the funnies on his 
regular Sunday broadcasts (above) dur- 
ing the strike of the newspaper de- 
liverers. His Honor supplies gestures, his 
own sound effects, and a moral (for 
Breathless Mahoney in Dick Tracy): 
“Dirty money never brings good luck.” 


Birthday: Forrest (Nuspins) Horr- 
MAN, the Cheyenne, Wyo., boy who. was 
expected to die of a bladder ailment last 
winter was 4 on July 11. Nubbins, who 
celebrated Christmas on Nov. 19, has 
continued to improve since he under- 
went a delicate operation. 


Married: Luisk RAINER, movie actress, 
and Rosert Knirrez, publisher; in New 
York, July 12. The marriage was Knittel’s 
first. Miss Rainer divorced the playwright 
Clifford Odets in: 1940. 


Way Out: In Berlin, Exnst UpdeEt’s mis- 
tress denied that he had been killed in 
a Luftwaffe accident, as the Nazis re- 
ported in 1941, and neighbors confirmed 
the fact that the world famous flier had 
committed suicide. Her story: Udet never 
joined the Nazi party, but he became 
top production man in the Luftwaffe. 
When Hitler demanded more bombers to 
destroy the British Isles, Udet held out 
for fighters. Géring told him that the 
Fiihrer was sncianed and Udet shot him- 
self rather than risk being sent to a con- 
centration camp. 


Hoax: In Chicago, Mrs, Mary S'rryszyk 
learned that Son1a PELEK, typist, had ob- 
tained a divorce in her name last April 
and married her estranged husband, Pvt. 
Huperr Strryszyx. The soldier had ap- 
peared as a witness under an assumed 
name. He then married Sonia, who had 
already’ borne him a child. Miss Pelek 
was held in contempt of comt. When 
Stryszyk, now overseas, returns he will be * 
arrested for fraud, perjury, and bigamy. 
Mrs. Stryszyk discovered the divorce 
when her allotment checks stopped. 


Died: ALLA Nazimova, 66, veteran ac- 
tress; of coronary thrombosis, in Holly- 
wood, July 13 (see page 83). 

Rapst SAMUEL Rose, 90, father of. 
Maj. Gen. Maurice Rose, who was shot 
last March after he surrendered to a 
Nazi soldier in Germany; of old age and 
grief, in Denver, July 10. a 

ApoLF CARDINAL BERTRAM, 86, anti- 
Nazi Archbishop of Breslau. As dean of 
the German Catholic Hierarchy, Cardi- 
nal Bertram wrote a pastoral letter in 
1936 appealing to the German le 
to ‘resist the Nazi campaign- to under- 
mine the church. Last March, the aging 
Cardinal refused to evacuate Breslau, 
but threw open the gates of his palace to 
the Russians. His death reduces the Col- 
lege of Cardinals to 40 members, the 
lowest number in 144 years. 

Gen. Sm Hucu Exes, 65, command- 
er of the British Tank Corps in the last 
war and one of the developers of the 
then “secret weapon”; in London, July 
11. Elles established the value of the 
tank and the prestige of his corps by 
leading the victorious attack of 350 tanks 
in the Battle of Cambrai. 








EDUCATION 











Newsweek, Jury 23, 1945 





Colleges in Uniform Aim to Lure 


GI in Europe to His Books Again 


The soldier is starting to college. Away from the battle fronts the Army has put 


in operation a setup which will give some schooling to millions still in uniform. A 


few qualified soldiers are allowed to enter such foreign universities as Oxford and. 
the Sorbonne. About 1,000,006 have enrolled for correspondence courses in the 
Armed Forces Institute, with headquarters in Madison, Wis. Another 1,000,000 are 
expected to enter Army “unit” schools of 1,000 students. each, organized on the bat- 
talion level. The Army is also setting up its own University Study Centers abroad— 
American colleges with Army and civilian professors. Jerry Gask, NEWSWEEK war Cor- 
respondent, reports the opening of the first of these centers at Florence last week and 
Toni Howard of Newsweex’s Paris bureau tells of preparations for another at Biartitz: 


Fascists Strutted Here: Bugles played 
flourishes, drums tapped out salutes. In 
the golden Florence sunshine, some 1,300 
GI’s, officers, Wacs, and nurses standing 
on the concrete quadrangle snapped to 
attention. Behind them, cut into-a con- 
crete strip spanning the great red-brick, 
white-trimmed building, was a ghostly 
Fascist inscription lauding Benito Mus- 
solini as “Fondatore dell "Impero” (Foun- 
der of the Empire). In front of them, on 
a reviewing stand jammed with brass, Lt. 
Gen: Lucian K. Truscott Jr., command- 
er of the Fifth Army, rose to address 
the students. 

That was the scene at the former 
Fascist School of Aeronautics, a few 
miles outside Florence and close to the 
hotly contested Amo River, on the after- 
noon of July 9 when the Army officially 
inaugurated its University Study Center 
—the first of its kind anywhere—for the 
Mediterranean theater of operations. It 
sounded the starting gun for other and 
still bigger university study centers to 
come, including three in the Euro- 








‘Actne 
Joe College in khaki: Yanks at Oxford get Lend-Lease tuition . . 


pean theater of operations—at Biarritz, 
France, at Shrivenham near Oxford, 
England, and near Blackpool, on the 
English west coast. ' 


Already the Florence University Study 


Center site, which the Germans turned 
into an Army i 
became the American 24th General Hos- 
pital, had taken on the informal aspect 
of a college campus back home. Throw 

its tree-shaded ‘walks and gardens in the 
shadow of the Apennines, GI's strolled 
with books under their arms. Around the 


—- swimming pool and on the steps: 


of half a dozen huge buildings: — 
in 1988 and now labeled Harvard Hall, 
Yale Hall, Duke Hall, Stanford Hall, ete., 
GI’s chatted with their girl friends or 
rested in the sunshine. Ss 


Professor Pfc: Every member ‘of the 
Florence faculty is a highly qualified -GI 
or officer. The University Study Center’s 
president, Brig. Gen, F. J. Tate, is a 
former professor of military science and 
tactics at Virginia Military Institute and 








Ss 


hospital and which later 


. A Biarritz casino is becoming an Army University 


—e 


a fighting man, too—he commanded the 
34th Division Artillery at Anzio. 

Of the 99 instructors, about 40 have a 
doctor’s degree, many more have'a mas- 
ter’s degree. One is a Wac T/5, another 
is a Navy storekeeper third-class who 
formerly was a mathematics professor at 
Brooklyn College. Two are Negroes. All 
are former college teachers or men with 
advanced degrees and many years of 
teaching experience. 

Students are selected by chiefs of the 
major theater commands on a quota sys- 
tem. They must be high-school graduates 
or college students, or possess AGCT 
(Adjutant Generals’ Classification Test) 
or an IQ rating of 105 or over. They may 
select three courses which they take in 
two twenty-hour blocks over a one-month 
term. That works out into a schedule of 
three lessons of one hour each, daily, five 
days a week. Including private study, the 
Army calculates that this concentrated 
form of teaching lets the student acquire 
in one month an education equivalent to 
half the average college semester, with 
a wider selection of subjects. 

The result of this system has been that 
the American Council on Education, na- 


‘tional spokesman for all the major col- 


leges, has recommended to its affiliates 
that they give credit values to soldiers 
for work-done certificates gained in Army 
university study centers. Many colleges 
have already responded favorably. They 
expect to send to Europe about 
800. teachers who will help out the 
study center faculties in five- to twelve- 
month shifts. 

On inaugural day the Florence center 
had_ 1,824 students—1,247 enlisted _per- 
sonnel, 77 officers including eighteen 
nurses, and five Wacs. By September an 











OFFICIAL VU. 8. NAVY PHOTO 


This ship had no right to live ood 
but she did] 7 : 


This is your aircraft carrier Saratoga 
—the oldest in the fleet. 


_ She was one more entry on a swelling 

list of American ships . . . ships so 
badly damaged that they have no 
right to live! According to all rules and 
‘experience, her hurts were grievous 
' enough to put her on the bottom. 


_. But her crew of American seamen 
j collectively refused to recognize the rules. 


| They brought her back! 


' The survivors of what should have 
been her death, brought her back more 
_} than 5000 painful miles so that her shat- 
| tered flight decks could be mended, her 
_Tipped plates replaced, her seared super- 
i structure and hangar deck renewed. 
They brought her back because they had 
implicit confidence in American ability 
"to repair and refit her. 


~ They brought the “‘Sara’”’ back so she 
“Could fight again! 


The “Sara” is back in action, today! 


But here’s the sore spot: A lot of critical 
ships aren’t back in action! American 
shipyards are jammed with battle-dam- 
aged shipping. The pressure of repair 
work on fighting and supply ships mounts 
every day. The need for skilled workers to 
keepuprepair schedulesis terribly urgent. 


How soon these ships return to action, 
depends on us at home. On how well we 
understand the stupendous naval prob- 
lems of the Pacific: 


¥ It takes 3 ships in the endless Pacific 
to do the supply job that 1 ship did 
in the Atlantic. 


Vv 6 to 11 tons of supplies are required * 
to place a man in the Pacific theater 
—an additional ton per month to 
maintain him. 

Vv Yet under ideal conditions, a supply 
vessel can average but 2 round trips 
per year. 


v In taking the shortest route to the 
nearest base capable of repairing 
them, some of our ships have had to 
sail 14 the circumference of the world. 


But after 170 years of dealing with the 
American temper, the Navy is confident 
that the schedules will be maintained 
. .. that the damaged ships will be put 
into action again before Japan is whip- 
ped. And the Navy knows its Americans. 


Didn’t they bring the “Sara” back? 


SPER 


CORPORATION 
30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20 








FORD INSTRUMENT CO., INC. 
SPERRY GYROSCOPE CO., INC. 
VICKERS INCORPORATED | 

Waterbury Tool Division, VICKERS INC. 























CANADIAN WHISKEY 








hy 





enrollment of 4,000 is expected. The GI's 
are waited upon by 3$00-odd German 
prisoners of war and they like the setup. 


Paradise at Biarritz: The Army’s new 
university at Biarritz, which will open 
late in August at the seaside playground 
in- Southern France, sounds like a GI's 
combat hallucination: tennis, golf, horse- 
back riding over plateaus ove the 
blue Bay of Biscay, swimming and sun- 
ning on wide beaches, the_lush comfort 


| of millionaire ocean-front hotels. 


Here students will live in three lux- 
urious hotels—the Héte]l du Palais, the 
Miramar, and the Carleton—with the Bay 
of Biscay Te below and the towering 
Pyrenees for a backdrop. They will eat in 
glass dining rooms hanging over the sea 
and dance in the Bellevue Casino where, 
before the war, millions of francs fell at 
the drop of a card and the international 
set gambled until dawn. In the Municipal 
Casino they will watch American movies 
and stage shows. 

Although Army officials, charged with 
administering the Biarritz Study Center, 
say only that requisitioning is under way, 
actually it is about finished. Seaside vil- 
las have already been secured for the 

rofessors who will leave American col- 
leges next month or who, like Kenneth 


Olson from Medill School of Journalism, © 


have already arrived. Sixty smaller Biar- 
ritz hotels are also being made ready. 
As a matter of fact, only one first-class 
beach hotel remains in French hands for 
the use of vacationing French civilians. 


Ivy League, ETO: Setting ‘up the 
American universities seems an ambitious 
job, but Army officials point out that this 
is only part of the plan to make available 


_ to American soldiers in Europe whatever! 






NEWSWEE 


educational study and training is needed 
or wanted—from literacy training for in- 
dividuals below the fifth-grade level to 
the opportunity to study with free tuition, 
room, and board at some of Europe’s old- 
est and finest universities, such as those 
of Oxford, Cambridge, Glasgow, and 
Paris, the British Royal Academy of 
Dramatic Art, the French Ecole des 
Beaux-Arts, and the Paris Conservatoire, 
These facilities are made available by j 
the British and French governments, in 
agreemerit with the institutions them- 
selves. The United States Government 
foots the bills by means of reverse Lend- 
Lease or cash payment. - 

Officials emphasize that the entire 
study program is voluntary. If .a soldier 
doesn’t want to expose himself to educa- 
tion, he doesn’t have to. But they also say 








Lunch With Diana: Londoners can learn while they cat at some of the restau- 
rants opened under government auspices to give the people chcap, hot meals. At this 
one in Bethnal Green Muscum in the East End the customers queue up at the gates 
to pay thcir shilling, carry their trays of food through the hzll of statuary, and then 
take their lich u.tcr the stare of Diana, Goddess of #i:: i1unt. 





that if any soldier ‘gains nothing during The 
his time in school, it isn’t the Army’s fault. 
Now Class, Tolerance 
Berlin children, who hadn't gone to The | 
school in two years, were back in the e€ 
classrooms last week. Only a fourth of Gen 
Ahe city’s 707 schools were usable. Some all the 
2,500 teachers had been approved as He ne 
non-Nazi, but the children . were still taken 
tarred with Nazism. all hi 
Russell Hill of The New York Herald show 
Tribune visited the Schadow public § viet’s 
school and found that a class of 31 former Wh 
Hitler Jugend didn’t know how to define yeft | 
the word “tolerance.” He also reported News 
that the Russians have allowed the Ger- oratio 
mans to weed out pro-Nazi teachers and collar. 
expurgate their own texts. Germans them- Cold 
selves advocated teaching Russian. Order 
Banne 
anniv: 
the D 
tom 
Orde: 
Sta 
Mars! 
besto 
by th 
Stalix 
Lenit 
Ret 
As 
“The 
a 24! 
blacl 
“an 
Spoki 
been 
once 
Ss A 
Black Star Photos of ¢ 
drev 
door 
Nev 
pora 
the | 





SWEEK)| 
Sara, 


—<—<— 






atever 
1eeded. 
for in-! 
vel to 
uition, 
’s old- 
- those 
» and 
ny of 
e des 
atoire, 
le by: 
ats, in 
them- 
nment 
Lend- 


entire 
soldier 
>duca- 
Iso say 
during 


The Generalissimo with full honors. 
s fault. 





ART 


i th. (| The Complete Stalin 


rth of Generalissimo Stalin, ‘supreme ruler of 
Some ¥@ all the sixteen Russias, is a modest man. 
ed as 7 He never permits his ph ph to be 
e still 9% taken or poses for an artist wearing 
all his medals. As ~a rule his_ pictures 
Herald #§ show only the Gold Star, the So- 
public ## viet’s highest award. 
former When the Russian artist Ivan Savel- 
define HJ yeff painted the portrait of Stalin on 
ported #] NewsweeEx’s cover, he added other dec- 
e Ger- orations: right breast—Order of Suvoroff; 
rs and collar—Marshal’s Star; left breast, top— 
them- #J Gold Star; left breast, left to right— 
Order of Lenin, three Orders of the Red 





anniversary of the Red Army, Medal for 
the Defense of Moscow; left breast, bot- 
tom (not shown in cover portrait)— 
Order of Victory. bee ny 

Starred epaulets denote the rank of 
Marshal of the Soviet. With the recently 
bestowed title of Generalissimo, given 
by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, 
Stalin was awarded another Order of 
Lenin and a second Gold Star. 


PP 


Return Bout 


As a heavyweight wrestler known as 
‘The Irish Rasputin,” Patrick O’Connor, 
a 245- der with a fierce and bristling 
black won 100 straight matches 
from July to November 1944. As a soft- 
spoken artist and dealer, O'Connor hasn’t 
been quite so lucky: He was thrown 
once, but he’s back in there battling. 

A year ago O’Connor, son and pupil 
of the late Irish-American sculptor An- 
-stau- drew O’Connor, who designed the bronze 
t this doors for St. Bartholomew’s Church in 
gates New York, opened a gallery of contem- 
‘then &@ porary art in Greenwich Village. One of 





the artists whose paintings were featured — 





Banner, Jubilee medal of the twentieth - 








COME AHEAD FERDINAND! 
: KELLYS CAN TAKE IT! 





Q wart oisner enoouctrons 


KELLYS ARE TOUGH! 


Your present tires will have to “‘take it,”” too—so make them last! 
Although the great Kelly plant is working day and night to build 
new Kellys, most of them are needed in the Big Fight. With 
Victory, you'll have this new redesigned extra-service Kelly 
truck tire. Until then, your expert Kelly dealer will help you 
turn your worn “smoothies” into Kelly 

recapped “‘toughies.” 


THE KELLY-SPRINGFIELD TIRE COMPANY 
Cumberland, Maryland 


ELLY 


TRUCK TIRE 


f 


for Over Half a Century 


NEWSWEEK, JULY 28, 194 


In “The Naked City”: Weegee misspelling a caption . 


was the Vienna-born Maxim Kopf, hus- 
band of the columnist, Dorothy Thomp- 
son. The gallery, O'Connor said, would 
put the work of present-day artists into 
the home of the average American by 


taking the hokum and the high prices out: 


of the “art business. Canvases in the 
O’Connor gallery were poice agar) at 
$50 to $250. The gallery closed down in 
six months. 

But last week O’Connor brightened 
New York’s waning art season with bub- 
bling champagne and a new gallery—up- 
town. Prices are in the thousands. The 
paintings date from all eras except the 
contemporary, with emphasis on nine- 
teenth-ceritury examples—a period which 
O’Connor favors, even in his own style of 
painting. “When I want an exhibit of 
some good modern individuals,” he 
says, “I'll think of myself and of my 
brother Roderick.” 

The champagne at the opening flowed 
from a silver fountain. There was a keg 
of beer in the back room for the beaming 
director who doesn’t like champagne. 
But from the art angle, O’Connor didn’t 
get Off to quite so good a start. The paint- 
ings on the walls were: definitely minor 
efforts, some by well-known artists—a 
lion by Delacroix, some sheep by Rosa 
Bonheur, and a bull by William Henry 
Howe. One rather well-known nineteenth- 
century storytelling canvas, “The Wolf 

er,” by the American John La 
Farge, which O’Connor bought at auc- 
tion for a mere $450 last May, topped 
the entire show at $10,000. 


THE PRESS 


Modest and Assuming 


Of all the thousands of photographers 
—news, studio, and free-lance—in New 
York City, one is a genius. Weegee says 
so himself. His rubber stamp, which has 
appeared on innumerable lively photos 
of the city for Acme News Pictures, the 
newspaper PM, and The New York Post, 
reads: “CREDIT PHOTO BY WEEGEE THE 
FAMOUS.” Weegee, a short, dumpy man 
in his 40s with a penchant for cigars, 
rumpled clothes, and unusual photo- 
graphs, denies that he’s immodest. “I’m 
modest,” he says in accents that are 
lower East Side by way of Austria-Hun- 
gary, “and assuming.” 

At any rate, Weegee today is Art, as 
his new book, “Naked City,”* attests. It 
is a candid portrait of New York, defi- 
nitely not on its best behavior. 

Weegee assumed his nom Daguerre 
from a misspelling of Ouija, referring to 
his psychic ability to be near the scene 
of action. Murders and fires are his bread 
and butter, and often he captures on his 
film little ironies of life. At one fire, he 
caught hoses pouring water into a burn- 
ing bui which carried an advertise- 
ment: “Simply Add Boiling Water.” An 
auto-accident casualty in another photo- 

aph, lies covered with newspaper in 
Femt of a double-feature movie house 


®Naked City. 249° pages, Essential Books. $4. 





. « One of his shots—death and the last sacrament at a fire 


which is playing “Joy of Living” and 
“Don’t Turn Them Loose.” 

Other news photographers, stung by 
the success of a former Bowery bum who 
still looks like one, point out that Wee- 
gee’s pictures are frequently out of focus 
and that he gets his scoops by working 


_nights and sleeping days. In his upside- 


down existence, he many times is the 
only photographer on the scene. Then 
again, he has been known to have a 
wreck moved four or five blocks so that 
he could have an exclusive. 


East Side, East Side: Weegee’s photo- 
graphs of New York are famous. Perhaps 
no one but an immigrant (at 10) who 
has lived most of his life in the seamier 
sections of the city could know that side 
of the big town so well. In his file are 
negatives of not only murders and fires, 
but churches, funeral parlors, the circus, 
the Bowery, Coney Island, the El, tene- 
ments, opera standees, Harlem, Frank 
Sinatra at the Paramount, attempted sui- 
cides, and kids bathing in the streets. 
Weegee started his photographic career 
on New York more, “kidnapping 
youngsters to pose them on ponies an 
in toy automobiles. He never really left 
the streets. 

Long before he became famous (the 
point at which other eg. 9 Hg were 
assigned to take pictures of him), Wee- 
gee was known as Asher Fellig, one of 
the seven children of Rabbi Fellig. As a 
youngster, his life was one ‘tenement 
after another until an itinerant photog- 








THE ELEPHANT THAT SLEPT TILL NOON 


Alas! for Elephas primigenius. He was 
caught napping by a Magdalenian 
glacier. Crudely refrigerated, he cooled 
his heels for ten thousand years in 
Siberia’s frozen tundra. Till somebody 
dug him out last spring. 

In the matter of cold storage, science has improved on 
nature. You no longer need an ice age to deep-freeze an 
elephant. All you need, in fact, is an elephant and suitable 
equipment insulated with Eagle Low Temperature Mineral 
Wool Felt. 

Eagle"L-T Felt, as it’s informally called, is a felted form 
of Eagle Mineral Wool, one:of the world’s most efficient 
insulating materials. The semi-rigid Felt is designed for 
ehigneeel storage rooms, coolers, freezers and truck bodies 
| ...for cold water pipe lines, low and moderate ie nc 
_ ture applications. 

Eagle L-T Felt has great thermal efficiency ‘aad gives 


long, outstanding performance at temperature’ ranging from 
far below zero up to 400° F. It is non-settling, water-repel- 
lent, non-corrosive, non-combustible, practically rot-proof, 
and does not attract vermin. 

_Eagle-Picher.is a major primary producer of lead and 
zinc, as well as insulation for low and high temperatures, 
We also manufacture hundreds of products from them for 
industry and the home. We are proud that the diversified 
nature of our business enables us to be variously useful to 
our country at this time . . . as it will later permit us to serve 
people and industry in many urgent needs of peacetime living. 


Ep EAGLE -PICHER. 


Lead - Zine ° Insulation 
General Offices: Cincinnati (1 )» Ohio 


*% Dig in te win— with MORE Wer Bounds! & 











“Ghe saistocatof Ligueuss”” 


You and deserve the best—so serve 
FORSDOEN F T with pride—befere déinner— 
after dinner — anytime. 10 preef” 
GIFT OF THE GODS” 





J LONDON « 1936 


BORDEAUX « 1907 
MADE BY CHARLES JACQUIN ot Cie., Inc. * PHILA, PA. 
MAKERS OF QUALITY CORDIALS SINCE 1684 


Send for free book of recipes and hints. W, Charles 
FE a ae ee Lee 


EN] 2 





LARGE 
ewes” FIRES np ee 


Vag 


HELP THE WAR EFFORT 


In times of War Emergency, Fire Haz- 
ards increase at a terrific rate. Fire is 
a destructive agent that aids the 
enemy. Play safe with FYR-FYTER 
EQUIPMENT. Opportunity for Sales- 
men. Write today for our Post War 


# Sales Plans. 
¢ THE FYR-FYTER CO. 
Dept. 6, Dayton 1, Ohio 











- | * 
FORBIDDEN 











ae 
J 
: as $ 
*ey 4 . J 
eee. p~ 
J i “ + x 


“PRANK €. WEAKLY, Prosident 


PARK HOTEL 


} \ connecticut AVE. & WOODLEY RD., WASHINGTON 











76 





NEWSWEEK, JuLy 28, 1945 








rapher made a tintype of him. “Right den 
I decided to solve dat mystery,” says 
Weegee, who changed his name to Ar- 
thur Fellig and later Weegee when, un- 
accountably, he told the Acme News Pic- 
tures staff of the wreck of the dirigible 
Shenandoah before he presumably could 
have known of it 


Back in Dem Days: He worked for 
commercial siiotoaraiionr: lugging heavy 
11x14 cameras (“Dey didn’t have en- 
largements in dem days”); on the streets, 
taking pictures of unprotesting children 
for unsuspecting parents; as “assistant 
photographer, which covers a multitude 
of sins”; and as dark-room man for Acme. 
He once applied to the old New York 
morning World as a photo printer, and 
was told to make some prints 'on PMC 
(a photographic printing paper no longer 
available). “I still ain’t sure what dat is,” 
he says. He also worked as busboy at 
the Automat restaurants, where he ac- 

uired his cafeteria philosophy: “I tink 
if ya dirty up da dishes, ya oughta 
clean ’em up yourself.” 

After Acme, came PM. His pictures at- 
tracted publicity, perhaps primarily be- 
cause he was a “character.” He lives in a 
$17-a-month room across from Police 
Headquarters and conservatively keeps 
his money under his. mattress. His radio 
is tuned to police calls, and by special 

rmission, his car, which he lives in 

m' midnight to 7 in the morning, is 
equipped with a police short-wave re- 
— His blue ce veneer n e 
with secret zippered pockets, loo. ike 
a sack. He reek to be pinned to the 
rumor that he has but one suit: “Well, I 
hadda lotta ole close in da closet which 
I gave away recently.” But even one 


| suit is an improvement. In 1932, Weegee 
| was a nudist. - 


‘What I Had Seen’: He is a bachelor. 
He repeats a phrase furnished by his 
publishers: “My true love is my camera.” 
His bookcase contains the volumes “Live 
Alone and Like It” and “Sex Life of the 
Unmarried Adult,” appropriate reading 
for one who left school at 14. He writes 
too—captions, notes, and comments—and 
his prose reads well after an editor has 
corrected his spelling. Ralph Ingersoll of 
PM heard Weegee wisecracking about 
a story he had photographed, and 
asked him to write it up. “At first I was 
scared,” writes Weegee, “but I sat down 
to a typewriter and finally found words 


for what I had seen and felt. That’s all © 


there was to it.” 

Some of Weegee’s photographs have 
the oddest reasons for being. One of 
them is a candid shot of the Duke and 
Duchess of Windsor at the circus, with 
a cigar stuck smack-dab in the middle 
of the mouth of the former King of Eng- 
land. Weegee explains that he took this 
picture because the Cigar Institute of 
America, Inc., donates prizes to photog- 
raphers who snap celebrities mehr 4 
cigars. He got $50. “I don’t photograp 


‘ers of The New York Dail 


society,” he says, “unless they have a 
fight and get arrested or they stand on 
their heads.” 


‘Diffrunt From Anyting’: Weegee the 
Famous is currently working on another 
book about New York City, but “Diffrunt 
from anyting anybody's done before. My 
own interpretation of da city, no cops, no 
murders, no fires.” 

“Tm very ‘sens'tiff and artistic,” he 
once said, “and hate the sight of blood, 
but I am spellbound by the mystery of 
murder.” A business acquaintance ob- 
serves: “If he were as sensitive about 


his personal pogessince as he is about 


other things he'd be quite a guy.” 
Annie Makes the Bar Mad 


Two years ago, Orphan Annie, Harold 
Gray’s comic-strip moppet, met a horrid 
group of war-price and rationing-board 
members who illegally acquired unlimited 
amounts of rationed commodities (NEws- 
WEEK, Aug. 80, 1943). The Office of 
Price Administration protested that this 
incident might cause the estimated 50,- 
000,000 readers of The Chicago Tribune- 
New York News Syndicate, Inc., strip to 
form a false concept of the OPA. 
"Last week, many of the 2,086,634 read- 
News missed 
Annie’s latest experiences because of the 
New York newspaper deliverers’ strike 
(see page 60), but the National Lawyers 
Guild did not. Annie was. obviously being 
framed in court on the charge of murder- 
ing Mrs. Bleating-Hart, a “good woman” 
of her community. The complete con- 
spiracy of judge, prosecuting attorney, 
and jury was too much for legal minds. 

“This sequence strikes at the roots of 
American faith in the judicial system,” 
Robert W. Kenny, oresifent of the guild, 
wrote the syndicate. “. . . It is not our 
role to stand passively by while such a 
blanket condemnation is being spread 
through the nation’s press through the ap- 
parently artless vehicle of a comic strip.” 


Since Orphan Annie was “seriously at- — 


tacking the integrity and traditions of the 
American bench and bar,” the guild asked 
the syndicate to “change the policy” of 
the cartoon sequence at once. But Gray is 
now working on the November sequences, 
so a change is unlikely. 


oo 


Ghost’s Rights 


The ghost of Count Galeazzo Ciano 
walked the streets of Rome last week. 

The weekly Giornale di Roma _pub- 
lished a thinly disguised pirate edition of 
Ciano’s diary, the world rights of which 
are held by The Chicago ga | News. Il 
Tempo, which had bought exclusive Ital- 
ian rights from The News, filed suit. The 
editors, however, had little hope of suc- 
cess. Literary piracy is commonplace in 
the former headquarters of. Mussolini's 
Foreign Ministcr and son-in-law. 








eThis a 


FA 





oThis advertisement is one of a series On newor improved Thompson products which will speed postwar progress—automotive, aeronautical and industrial 


FASHION NOTE: A Steel Girdle for Pistons wili be 


worr by the better cars of tomorrow 


ROZEN (stuck) pistons and scored or out-of- 
round cylinders have cost motorists millions of 
dollars annually for many, many years. This ail- 
ment, familiar to every repair shop, has brought 


waste of power, loss in engine smooth- 
ness and acceleration—excessive con- 
sumption of oil and gasoline. It has 
meant costly repairs, reconditioning 
and replacement. 

A new Thompson piston employs 
a unique, patented cast-in steel belt. 


BUY WAR BONDS 
' AND HOLD THEM 


{hompson 
ren ttrars 


& 
S 
aa 


ae 


eS BPS . 


This controls expansion under engine heat. Now 
used in many wartime engines, it has been tested 
successfully by leading automobile manufacturers. 

You will be fortunate if you have Thompson steel- 


belted pistons in your postwar Car. 
Because they can be fitted more closely, 
you will enjoy quieter, smoother 
operation, and benefit by longer-lived 
engines and marked savings in oil 
and gasoline. 


Beating Production Schedules on Vital Parts for 
Planes, Tanks, Submarines, PT Boats, Torpe 
does, Jeeps, Half-Tracks, Tractors and Trucks. 


3 Manufacturers of Automotive, Aircraft and Industrial Parts and Accessories — G-nerol Offices: Clevelend—Plents in Ohie, Michigan, Califernia end Canade 











The time 


Whenever a glass of delicious wine 
is welcome, whenever comradeship 
needs the flavor and bouquet of a 
master vintner. 


Dinner at home, ‘tow at the club, 
P wd at the hotel—wherever wine 


and gives enchantment to the 
Occasion. 


- cine: 


WHITE WINE 


PRODUCT OF USA 


Distributed by National Distillers Products 
Corp., New York, N. Y. 














This Trip 1S Necessary ! 


The Traveler's Mark of , 


| CROWN LUGGAGE CO. 


a 400-420 W. Redwond S. 230 Fifth Ave. 
Bip Baltimore 1, Md. New York City 











i 





78 
“TEDIGINE 
Better Than Whisky 


In cases of acute neurosis following the 
Dunkerque evacuation and during the 
battle of Britain, British medical men kept 











soldiers and civilians on the job with - 


first-aid doses of sedium amytal. They 
found Jaeede calming of the over- 
wrought nervous system just as im t 
as immediate splinting of a badly. frac- 
tured leg. Nevertheless, staid Britishers 
protested “doping” troops and _civilian- 
defense workers in the combat area. 
Against “socially accepted sedatives,” like 
small amounts of alcohol, the prejudice 
was not so strong. 

Last week in the British medical jour- 
nal The Lancet, a group of neuropsy- 
chiatrists at Maudsley Hospital, London, 
reported the results of a study of the 
comparative effects of a double whisky 
(20 cubic centimeters.of absolute alcohol) 


.and 3 grams of sodium amytal, on a group 


of 899 men. Their conclusion: “If pro- 
phylactic sedation is necessary in times 
of acute stress, small doses of sodium 
amytal are preferable to alcohol.” 

Both the alcohol and the drug caused 
a slight drop in: the conventional IQ 


scale—normal -average, 90.89: Alcohol,- 


85.26; sodium amytal, 86.22, a re- 
duction insignificant, the doctors claimed, 


within “any occupational group from . 


tinker to apothecary or ploughboy.” 

But in behavior tests, the results were 
more startling. Although it was difficult 
to detect from a patient’s behavior when 


a drug had been given, the effects of . 


even a small dose of alcohol were “ob- 
vious and deleterious.” Drink-tested pa- 
tients were “often euphoric, sleepy, noisy, 
sometimes inattentive, and full of back 
chat,” whereas the drug-controlled men, 
even after states of great excitement, 
could “hold on for the few hours longer 
that may change defeat into victory.’ 


al 


Nerves and Polio 


There were 155 new cases of infantile 
paralysis in the United States last week. 
Doctors, recalling last year’ s second worst 
epidemic” in the nation’s history—19,272 
cases—scanned medical literature for new 
developments in treatment. 

@ In the Journal of the American Medi- 
cal Association, two professional groups, 
one in San Francisco. and other in 
Milwaukee, reported on the use on polio 
victims of neostigmine (also called pros- 


_tigmin), a synthetic.chemical which de- 


creases muscular fatigue in myasthenia 
gravis, a serious ase of muscle weak- 
ness. The..San Francis¢o doctors found 

that this chemical, plus hot helped 
to relax muscular spasms a little, or tem- 
porarily, in acute cases. The Milwaukee 


men expressed: disappointment at finding 
no pronounced or even consistent relaxa- 


®Worst year, 1916, with 27,363 cases. 








Acme 


urgeon’s Guide: Capt. Gunnar 


a ing demonstrates his “localizer,” 


which guides a needle to a bullet or 
other foreign body in the flesh. The 
needle, in turn, guides the incision. 





tion after the use of the drug. Both 
agreed, however, that results were prom- 
ising enough to warrant further trial and 
study of neostigmine. 

@ Dr. Mary S. Sherman of Chicago, who 
conducted an eighteen-month study of 
70 patients who contracted polio in 1943, 
now asserts that ultimate recovery from 
this baffling ailment depends chiefly on 
the extent to which the central nervous 
system is damaged, and not ‘on the type 
of treatment. Of the 64 survivors, thir- 
teen had no detectable muscle weakness 
at any time, 44 had some weakness “but 
are not now handicapped,” six have 
“functionally significant weakness but re- 
quire no further treatment,” and seven 
need braces or operations. None grew 
worse during the eighteen -months and, 
as Dr. Sherman expected, major im- 


‘ provement occurred in those patients 


whose nervous systems were not com- 
pletely paralyzed. 


\ 

_ Preventive Ounce: In Washing- 
ton, Dr, Charles Armstrong, Director of 
the Division of Infectious Diseases of the 
United States Public Health Service, 
called on parents to use. common sense in 
handling their children to prevent an- 
other infantile-paralysis epidemic. 

Armstrong suggested the ese preventive 
measures: (1) Keep children out of 
crowds; (2) keep down flies, which are 
known to carry the virus; (3) prevent 
overexhaustion; see that the youngsters 
rest each afternoon; and (4) avoid tonsil 


operations. in. hot. weather. 





he wa: 


-R 











Bench Jockey 
‘A ball game’s cacophony is an off-pitch, 
figh-decibel discord of cheers, cries of 
m, pop, and hot-dog vendors, 
greams, rhythmic stomping and clap- 
ping for a rally by impatient fans, jeers, 
and the chatter of players. On the whole, 
ers ignore the sounds. They play 

ir game—that is, unless a bench jockey 
is riding them. 

A bench jockey is a voice in uniform. 

He sits in the opposition dugout and is 
equipped with verbal spurs. The art of 
getting an opponent’s goat still depends 
on two things: what is said, and how it 
is said. Since even sizzling epithets soon 
become clichés, the inflection method 
is more effective. 
* And since the baseball season thus far 
has been highlighted by the outstand- 
ing performances of ex-servicemen, it is 
not surprising to find a war veteran— 
Karl Scheel of the Chicago White Sox— 
leading the major leagues in the difficult 
art of bench jockeying. 


Gyrene Washout: Scheel, who was 
discharged from the Marines because of 
a back injury, was a semi-pro ballplayer 
before his enlistment in 1943. He tried 
out with Los Angeles this spring, but was 
found wanting. He couldn’t buy himself 
panne M2 job as pitcher in organized base- 


ball. So the 23-year-old frustrated ball- 





Both player returned to his native Chicago. 
‘ay and He worked out with the White Sox, 
ar ane and was a. bad enough pitcher to be 
— signed for batting practice. 

adie of A well built, handsome, clean-cut lad, 


, 1943, fg be was almost taciturn for awhile. As he 
| ’ @ continued special exercises to strengthen 


y, from Bh his back for the big leagues, he picked"up 
= bench-jockey tactics from such howling 


e type veterans as Mule Haas and Manager 
Jimmy Dykes. The kid was a natural. He 

a voice. 
Page peared describes it as on ‘a 
igh piping voices you can’t help 
hearing.” Another calls it “loud and 
bugle-pitched.” All within hearing agree 






















prevent 
ngsters 
| tonsil 









Rough rider: Karl Scheel in action 























A flat tire 
may lead to-. 
unexpected 

pleasures .. . 


... But a flat drink 
is always dismal! 


wily 


Where there's Life you'll hear 


‘= 


es 


CANADA DRY WATER is 
the preferred club.soda in 
fine bars, hotels and clubs. 
“PIN-POINT CARBONA- 
TION”... millions of tinier bubbles ... keeps drinks full of sparkle and zip, to 
the last sip. And Canada Dry’s special formula points up the flavor of any tall 
drink. For drinks that taste better, sound better... ask for sparkling Canada 
Dry Water when you're out, serve it in your home, 


## you preter a mixer with a fuller flavor, there’s nothing as good as “the Champagne 
of Ginger Ales”. ,. Canada Dry. 








80 





that the sounds from Scheel’s larynx have 
the general effect of finger nails scratch- 
ing a slate blackboard. 


Jibes and Jujutsu: His heckling has 
already cau: a riot. On June 20, he 
roasted the St. Louis club to a brown. He 
greeted Vern Stephens, Brownie slugger: 
“Meathead . . . Yeh, meathead No. 1.” 
When relief pitcher George Caster was 
knocked out of the box in the eighth 
inning, Scheel regretted: “Too bad, Geor- 
gie. You came in just in time to lose one. 
Good-by.” 

Caster cast the ball at the White Sox 
dugout. The Brownies made for Scheel. 
“I threw one player with a bit of jujutsu,” 
the ex-Marine says, “and had another on 
the floor when everybody landed on me.” 
He suffered a groin injury and 
cuts on his arms and legs, for 
which the Browns paid a league 
fine of $550. 

This display of violence hasn’t 
stopped Scheel. His torn uni- 
form hangs at. Comiskey Park 
as a souvenir of “The Battle 
of the Dugout.” He contin- 
ues to irritate every sensitive 
soul in the American League. 
Scheel’s strongest defense comes 
from the stands, not from others 
on his team. His wife, an ardent 
White Sox fan, argues: “After 
all, they razz him.” They do. 
Like all artists, opposing major 
leaguers go crazy when a non- 
talented observer criticizes their 
work, “Who,” they ask, “gave 
you a ticket to get into the 
game, busher”? 


Sel 


The Nelson Streak 


On the links, it’s Nelson, Nel- ~ 
son, Nelson. Last Sunday, on 
the Moraine Country Club grass 
at Dayton, Ohio, it was Byron 
Nelson again, for the 1945 edi- 
tion of the national Professional 
Golfers Association champion- 
ship. His victory, the eighth in 
the last eight PGA-sponsored tourneys, 
set a new record for victory streaks. 

As usual, the Toledo pro did it the 
hard way. Lord Byron plays best when he 
must struggle. Nursing a misery in his 
back, he made his way through the match 
play via Gene Sarazen, Mike Turnesa, 
Denny Shute, Claude Harmon, and Sam- 
my Byrd. A close squeak came with Tur- 
nesa (Nelson sank a putt to win on the 
36th hole), and another in Sunday’s final. 
The champ was 2 behind Byrd at the end 
of 18 holes, but he pulled even at the 27th, 
and won his second PGA title 4 and 38. 


Poe 


Barnum of the Links 


As president of the George S. May Co., 
which flatly advertises that it offers “The 
world’s finest business engineering,” 


-George S. May nurses firms back to 
health and sets them on their feet. He 
cuts corners and'fed tape with equal ease 
but boasts that he is dispensable to the 
firm. In golf—as president of the Tam 
oShanter Club in Chicago and panjan- 
drum of the All-American golf tourna- 
ments—:May handles all affairs himself 
and generally behaves as if he were Santa 
Claus on a spree. Despite the difference 
of .approach, May spells success in 
both fields. : 

May is the biggest name in golf today 
—even though his game is admittedly 


“lousy,” and he’s happy to break 100. 
The reason: He is the Barnum of golf, 
the most grandiose promoter of the sport 
since Mary, Queen of Scots, gave golf a 
whirl,. May bought: Tam o’Shanter nine 





Golf out loud: May (left) congratulates Furgol 
\ 


tted the 


ame to its 


years ago after a fire had 
club, and two years ago set | 
mortgages. ! 

‘It was in 1940; however, that his fertile 
mind gave birth to the creed, “golf for 
the masses.” He spent $5.30 to see the 
National Open, and didn’t have a good 
time. Next year he decided to put on a 
tournament of his own. “What’s the high- 
est res in pro golf?” he asked. He was 
told $10,000. So he offered $11,000, cut 
admission to $I plus tax, and started the 
All-American tournament to its reputation 
as the “Tam o’Shanter Circus.”. 

The customers rolled in, 41,000 of 
them. They cluttered the course, yelled, 
screamed, and wage pel lion en 
were putting. They p indoor slot 
machines, listened to the golf by short- 
wave radio, watched a swimming show, 
and went: to dances each evening. 


Associated Press 





‘NEwsweEEK, Jury 23; 1945 


Golfing purists cluck-clucked,; . but a 

good time was had by all. In 1942 
when the United States Golf Associa- 
tion canceled all national tourneys, May 
staged a doubleheader—an Open and 
an Amateur—and 62,000 spectators 
swarmed over the fairways. Two years 
ago, the Women’s Open championship 
was added, and the attendance went up 
to 67,000. Last year, the prize soared 
to a new high—$42,500—and so did the 
attendance—85,000. 

- Next week (July 23-29), the fifth edi- 
tion of the All-American tournaments will 
engulf Tam o’Shanter and Chicago. 
Eighty thousand tickets have already 
been sold, and the prize money is an- 
other new high—$60,233.63 in War 
Bonds and stamps, 2% times richer than 

any other tournament. On hand 

will be the top golfers of the 
country: Byron Nelson, three- 
time winner of the All-American 

Open; Jug McSpaden, who won 

in 1948; Ed Furgol, Amateur 

winner last year who has turned 
professional; Betty Hicks, win- 
ner of the 1944 Women’s Open, 
and a host of others eager to col- 
~lect May’s jumbo-sized prizes. 

Special new features: holding of 

the Central Amateur Athletic 

Union senior swimming and div- 
_ing championships in the club's 


pool at the same time, and a 
Ladies Day, July 27, during Come 
which women may attend on the bi 
payment of Federal tax only. a Zer 
and | 
giant 


_ The Profits of Boge: All 
of this hoopla is not only good 
showmanship, but good business. 

’ The iden magnate uses 
the same psychology in what he 
wears. He’s addicted to shirts 
and suits of colors that make 

astels of the rainbow. No one 

as to point out George S. May; 
his clothes shriek at you. 

May might have learned prac- 

_ tical psychology from Billy Sun- 
day, the baseball player who hit 
: the sawdust trail. Born on a farm 

near. Windsor, Ill., May. left cows and 

chickens at 16 for four‘years of Eastern 

Illinois State Normal. He burst into busi- 

ness by selling Bibles to audiences who 

had been left receptive by the brimstone 
exhortations of Sunday. After that, May 
held industrial jobs until he founded his 
firm in 1925. ee 
May’s circus, in ‘which golf is almost 
the sideshow, has been reviewed by Va- 
riety, a representative of which said: “We 
) it as show business.” After 
the war, The Shirt has rosy visions 
of even bigger productions: 50-cent ad- 
missions, an International Open _tourna- 
ent, dnd purses of poneiee “No “4 
is going to top me,” says May. “ 
even General Motors if they stage the 
tournament’ I~ hear’ they ‘are ~ consider- 
ing.” It could be. May insists: “We cant 
go backwards.” 


“ 








wwnen « GWT CARCO PLANE 


outdives a Jap Zero... ~ THAT'S. NEWS!” 


Pal Ross . 








“Armed only with my trusty typewriter, I was headed over the Hump 
to get on-the-spot-news. Every time I looked at that 19,000-foot rockpile, 
I wondered, ‘Is this trip necessary?’ But when they loaded us into a Curtiss 
Commando, I felt better. I’ve seen Commandos carry 6 x 6 trucks, bomber 
engines, and hordes of Chinese troops, through weather that even grounded 
the birds. But here’s the pay-off. One unarmed Commando actually outdove 
a Zero! With the Nip on its tail, that big ship dove at 405 miles an hour 
and beat that fast fighter to a cloud bank below. Believe me, when a 
giant transport can take a high-speed dive like that... that’s news!” 


THATS WH 
| WANT TO RIDE 
THE AIRLINES THAT 


There's Lots of M-m-m in meals aboard a 
Curtiss Commando . . . world’s largest, fast- 
est, twin-engine transport. More varied and 


delicious menus are served from the stream- 


lined sky kitchen up front by two hostesses, 


EATER Rage, 


Corsages From the Sky. Corsages and bouquets 

Shih 5 stay lovely longer when they are Shipped Com- 

HY - mando! ‘There are 526 cubic feet of cargo space in - 

a Commando, with temperatures in both 20lds con- 

MOSCRIP MILLER & trolled to prevent freezing. For the florist, there’s 

War Correspondent in the y 4 more profit. And for you, a fresher, better buy! 
China-Burma 


Ped | 
THE CURTISS 


Today's Great Lifelines 
Tomorrow's Great Airliner 


Check and Double-check. It’s so much Curtiss 
easier to check the Commando’s twin en- ‘Sa 
gines at flight stops that over-all trip speed ‘ 

is greater. The cowl opens in eight panels Wr ht 
... each. hinged with quick-type fasteners 19 
~+.and one man can handle any section 

without the use of tools. Such unusual FIRST IN FLIGHT 
accessibility is a Commando “exclusive.” 








SCRIPTO WFG-CO © ATLANTA, GA 





The [ONG-LEAD 


PENCIL 


always sharp 





Lved by 
en 


(han any other 
mechanical 
pened! 





PENCILS - LEADS - ERASERS 











SPORT WEEK 











Memories of an Orchid Man 


by JOHN LARDNER 


Just before the last war the fine 
town of Paris, France, was the world’s 
boxing capital for a brief, gay spell. I 
saw a picture in the papers the other 
day of four American soldiers chatting 
with Georges Carpentier in Carpen- 
tier’s Lido: Bar in present-day Paris, 
and it took me back to the time when 
this handsome though unre- 
liable blond Frenchman was 
one of the leading charac- 
ters of prizefight pageantry 
and a dashing—and only . 
slightly artificial—figure of 
romance. = 

Carpentier in the picture 
looked older, naturally. The 
official almanac gives him 
51 years and the facts of 
history give him somewhat 
more. But he is still tall, 
straight, trim, and dapper, still, with 
that easy, expansive, man-of-the-world 


porte. which led people to think of - 


, with M. Carpentier’s gentle en- 
couragement, as half gallant warrior 
and half maitre d’hétel. 


My own personal memories of 
Carpentier do not go all the way back 
to the era 1913-14 when he was one 
of a graceful, light-fingered circle of 
fighters, managers, and entrepreneurs 
ae cooperated with and double- 
crossed each other with equal suavity 
in Paris; Paris being their base and the 
world’s fight capital because the heavy- 
weight champion, John Arthur John- 
son, was a fugitive from American 
justice and liked Parisian life. In those 
days practically all the important fight- 
ers in Paris—American, English, and 
French—were managed or influenced 
by a high-spirited little man named 
Dan McKetrick, and when Carpentier 
was not fighting one of McKetrick’s 
fighters for a quick touch he was out 
there in evening costume refereeing a 
McKetrick fight. 

I first saw Carpentier myself at the 
climax of his career, on a back road on 
Long Island. Wearing a white shirt 
and a pair of gray flannel pants, he 
was jogging through the dust with a 
plump neighbor of ours, name of Jack 
Curley. Mr. Curley was winded, and 
glad of an excuse to pause. 

“Meet George C teer, the next 
champeen,” he said. M. Carpentier 
shook hands gravely and courteously. 
He looked to me like a very tired and 
wistful young man. 

He was training at the moment for 
his great fight with Dempsey; and Mr. 





Curley, who had transferred the center 


’ of pugilistic gravity back to America 


uring the war by buying Johnson’s 
title for Jess Willard in Havana, was 
having some trouble selling Carpentier 
to himself, though Tex Rickard was 
having no trouble selling tickets. Car- 
pentier was overmatched, and knew it. 
It used to be said around the 
training camp in Manhasset, 
L.I., that if the fight were 
postponed one day, Carp 
would jump out of his skin. 
The Dempsey fight was ap- 
petizing to him financially, 
but terrifying otherwise. 

Sometimes His training 
sessions were closed to the 
public. Other times we 
: watched him spar with Joe 

Jeannette. Joe, a great Ne- 
o fighter who made his way through 
e by accommodating people, was 
one of the McKetrick circle in Paris in 
1914—had, in fact, beaten Carpentier 
there in fifteen rounds, seven years 
before the Dempsey fight. He could 
have beaten him here again in the 
training ring, but instead he tried to 
make his old colleague look good. Joe 
was almost always helpful. 

“It’s just once in a while he’s mean,” 
Jack Johnson said of him in 1914, in 
the act of declining to fight Jeannette 
for the title, “and in case he gets one 
of those moods, I'd rather be fighting 


someone else.” 


Women at the ringside whooped 
hysterically and then sobbed and went 
white as Carpentier made his one 


-brave, futile pass at Dempsey on July 


2, 1921, and subsided, badly beaten. 
The result in no way surprised us kids 
who had watched the Frenchman trot- 
ting mournfully down country roads 
or sparring listlessly before the fight. 
It startled us to learn that Carp always 
knocked out English heavyweight 
champions in one round. We got an 
unfavorable, and unjust, impression of 
English heavyweight champions and 
of Carpentier himself. 

He could always hit with his right 
hand, always handle himself well. He 
had been fighting for fourteen years in 
1921, but there were no marks on his 
face to show it. They would not have 
looked right, so he did not have them. 
Today he emerges from another war 
and four years of enemy occupation of 
his country, as graceful as ever, and 
with a reputation to match his face— 
no visible marks. 











Ameri 




































 Jouy 23, 1945 88 


~ MOVIES 
Exit Alla—With Flowers 


A big bag of hot buttered popcorn cost 
a nickel. So did a chocolate ice cream 
soda. So did the Saturday afternoon 
movies. At the movies the nickel bought 
Theda Bara, Nita Naldi—or Nazimova. 

Alla Nazimova was $7 and her subtle 
intensity had made her a natural in the 
roles of Ibsen’s neurotic heroines when 
she burst on the movie consciousness of 
American kids who thought “Hedda 
Gabler” was a parrot. Those days—30 
‘years ago—were worried days for con- 
scientious parents, for mysterious and 
vampirish enticement was the theme of 
the silent screen. Against the competition 
Nazimova enticed with amazing success 
in long, reclining scenes soupy with the 
suggestion that she was suffering deep 
and unfathomable sorrow, in “War 





Brides,” in “Salome,” and in “The Ma- . 


donna of the Streets.” __ 

Nazimova, born in Yalta, the Crimea, 
before it. was a world byword, was the 
daughter of a prosperous. chemist. She 
‘studied music in Switzerland and Odessa, 





Nazjmova, on an Oriental slink 


and played first violin under such con- 


servatory directors as Tchaikowsky and 


| Rimsky-Korsakoff. 


Up With Ibsen: At 17 she revolted 
i of music and turned to 
vsky, acknowledged fa- 


ther of the modern. Russian ater, 
| agreed. to teach. the young girl. He 


_ coached her for the Moscow Art Theater, 
and in time she.toured Europe with vari- 
“us companies, Speaking only Russian, 


i remembered 
play, “The Chosen People.” 





__. The .Shuberts. offered her a contract 








fe come 


Production Equipment 
for Foundries, 
Metalworking Plants, 

; Food and 
Chemical Industries 





Service Equipment | 
for Railroads, 
Busses, and Airlines 


Specially Engineered 
Machinery 

















When the tornado of clean, hot air in this 
cone-bottom chamber meets a spray of whole 
milk, the moisture changes instantly to vapor 
—leaving milk solids which are removed as 
a dry, snowy powder. In airtight containers, 
properly dried and packaged, whole milk 
powder stays fresh for months. It is destined 
to be a standard grocery store item immedi- 
ately following the war. 


Milk handled by the Swenson-engineered 
spray process is properly dried and, there- 
fore, retains its natural flavor and vitamin 
values. It is as sweet and fresh as the original 
fluid . . . and in the entire process it is un- 
touched by human hands. Swenson Evapo- 
rator Co. Division, Whiting Corporation, 
15659 Lathrop Ave., Harvey, Illinois. 


? a. 
iT N 






EQUIPMENT FOR INDUSTRY. _ 





TAVANNES 





THWE Sloper” 


yt 
TE Pirgtnigg 


Lawce SIOZ 


37.50 
e Write for FREE STYLE BOOKLET NB 


TAVANNES ‘WATCH CO 


e Modets for Men and Women ¢ 
608 FIFTH AVE., N.Y. 70 


Better Light 


FOR DARE JOBS ... with 


GENERAL BAT-LAMP 











‘ ‘ Streamlined “trouble- 
light” fits ia tight, nate 

row places. Made of 

insulating plastic with 

rotating metal reflec- 

tor and guard. Write 
Dept. 9-A. 









THE 
GENERAL DETROIT CORP, 
2270 E. Jefferson, Detroit 7 


affects. many children 
when traveling. Fer 
comfort and relief try 





REST where 
itis COOL 


AlR- CONDITIONED 


: | 








Wilde and Keyes: One of the “Thousand and One Nights” 


with the sole provision that she learn 
English within six months. She learned it 
well enough in five to open in “Hedda 
Gabler.” From then on, though she 
played an incredibly varied repertory, 
she was considered, and thought of her- 
self, as the official Ibsenian star. 

When she returned from movies to the 
stage in 1928, she appeared in Eva Le 
Gellienne’s productions of “The Cherry 
Orchard,” and “Katerina,” and _ starred 
in Eugene O’Neill’s “Mourning Becomes 
Electra.” : 

From 1932 on she played in summer 
theater, acted small parts in the films, and 
did a few radio plays. Married only once 
and divorced after fourteen years, Nazi- 
mova shone brightest in an era when the 
stars of her world were acclaimed with fe- 
verish adulation, and she responded: “I 
was intoxicated with fame. I buried my 
face in the flowers that came every night 
. .. I was half mad with the joy of suc- 
cess.” Last week, in Hollywood, Alla Nazi- 
mova died, at 66, of coronary thrombosis. 


oe 


Aladdin on the Bounce 


Cornel Wilde, who used two ghost 
pianists to play Chopin in “A Song to 
Remember,” has two ghost singers in “A 
Thousand and One Nights.” Otherwise, 
the young actor does well enough on his 
own as Aladdin, the vagabond Sinatra 
of ancient Tigris. 

Any resemblance, however, between 
this wandering minstrel and the charac- 
ter from the Arabian Nights is strictly an 
afterthought. Cornel’s Aladdin falls in 
love with the Sultan’s daughter (Adele 
Jergens) and can’t do much about it un- 
til he comes inio possession of the magic 
lamp. His pal, Abdullah (Phil Silvers), 
talks jive like a hepcat and knows more 
about gin rummy than a_ Hollywood 


agent. And when Aladdin rubs the lamp, 
the genie turns out to be a slim and pert 
redhead (Evelyn Keyes) who calls him 
“Boss, dear” and acts accordingly. 

At this point, with this particnlar genie 
at hand—ready, able, and obviously will- 
ing—it isn’t easy to see why Aladdin gives 
the inaccessible princess another thought. 
But that’s the way~the story gocs. The 
treatment, fortunately, is tongue-in-cheek 
ee and although it results in 
more bounce than wit, the over-all effect 
is disarming. Columbia has furnished 
handsome sets, Technicolor, and a harem- 
ful of assorted houris. — 


Pe 


Lend-Ledse Love 


Judging from United Artists’ “Guest 
Wife,” Keetoosen, Ohio, is a comfortable 
town, and there’s no happier couple than 
the Prices. Chris (Richard Foran) used 
to run interference on his college. foot- 
ball team in the old days. Now ‘he’s a 
successful bank executive with an ador- 
ing wife, Mary (Claudette Colbert). 

The only fly in this Ohio ointment is 
Chris’s. sophomoric loyalty to Joe Parker 
(Don Ameche). Back in college Joe was 
the hero who carried the ball; currently 
he makes the headlines as a celebrated 
foreign correspondent. And whenever Joe 
gets into trouble, which is frequently and 
on a global scale, he depends on Chris to 
keep on running interference. Although 
Mary has never met Joe, she is justifiably 
fed up with her hus ’s hero worship 
and sees no reason to change her mind 
when Joe shows up at Keetoosen on the 
eve of the Prices’ departure for New York 
and a belated honeymoon. 

On the eRe had present problem 
looks easy. Out in the Orient he had reas- 
ons for cabling his publisher (Charles 
Dingle) that he had steadied down and 


d 
‘ 
, 

















Juty 28, 1945 85 
——————————_—————————— 
married. By wry of adding verisimilitude 
to an improbable reform, he had for- 
warded his paternalistic boss a, picture 
of Chris’s wife. Now all Joe needs is 
the temporary loan of Mary to keep up 


appearances. 

Chris, all for Lend-Lease within reason, 
misses the train that takes his: wife and 
Joe to New York. After that, the compli- 
cations .are strictly according to Holly- 
wood, but considerably funnier than you 
might expect. Sam Wood's direction 
makes the most of a lively script, and the 
players (with a special mention for 
Ameche’s willingness to play the butt of 
the jest) catch the spirit of an engaging 
summer-weight farce. 


oan 


Before He Returned 


RKO-Radio credits: the Army, Navy, 
Marine Corps, Coast Guard, and the 
Philippine Government with assists on 
“Back to Bataan.” The studio hasn’t let 
its official collaborators down. Although 
the film is a regulation war picture in 
many ways, it is notable as an intelligent 
and 
gue 
jungles and hills 
Arthur returned. 

“Back to Bataan” opens and closes 
with newsreel shots of American prison- 
ers of war released from the Cabanatuan 
camp cog Pg Luzon inger pa The 
rest of the is. the story of how an 
American colonel (John Wayne) and a 
Philippine Scout captain (Anthony Quinn) 
organized the untrained and _ practically 
unarmed patriots who accumulated wea 
ons by killing Japs and helped clear the 
way for the Americans’ capture of Leyte. 

_A personal narrative, which is no help 
but not particularly offensive, involves 
Quinn with a Filipino radio star (Fely 
Franquelli) who broadcasts for the Japs 
while serving as our Army’s under-cover 
agent in“Manila. 


as who fought the Japs from the 


| sepa tribute to the Filipino . 
until General Mac- . 


Born to be 
forgotten 


9X 
oy 


AFNIRS have everything it 

takes to take neglect. Every- 
thing from careful selection of steels 
through precision manufacture and 
including endless tests. Each has 
the famous Fafnir Balanced Design 
... the use of large balls and deep 
races that give a larger load sus- 
taining contact area and therefore 
greater thrust and radial capacity; 
made possible by a precise balanc- 
ing of race depth and ball size with 
outer and inner ring thickness and 
structure. Fafnirs incorporate seal- 


MOST COMPLETE 


ing devices made to order for every 
known problem of lubricant reten- 
tion and the exclusion of destruc- 
tive elements. Most important of 
all, Fafnir offers the endless inge- 
nuity of experienced bearing engi- 
neers in the field and in the plant 
to give ball bearing users the wisest, 
widest use of Fafnir advantages. If 
you want freedom from mainte- 
nance use the bearings that are 
“born to be forgotten”. The 

Fafnir Bearing Company, E] 
New Britain, Connecticut. 


LINE IN AMERICA 

















| olphe 
: SCREEN, STAGE 
RADIO STAR 


Cd 













se: Adolphe Menjou has been famous for years as a man 
of good taste. 


He: I can match him on one thing. 
\ snes What is that? 


ne: My choice of cigars. I smoke Blackstone . . . there just 
isn’t any better. 

sue: I imagine good taste really is important in cigars. 

He: I’llsay! So is aroma...and mellowness...and mildness. 
Blackstone has them all, because it’s filled 100% with 
the finest and costliest Havana tobacco grown in Cuba. 

7 7 7 
Thousands of Blackstone Cigars are going to the armed forces. So your dealer 


may not always have your favorite size. Please be patient . . . take another 
of the five popular Blackstone sizes. Waitt & Bond, Inc., Newark 5, N. d. 


Blackstone Cigar. - 
: the choice of successful men 


FIVE FAVORITE SIZES: PERFECTO EXTRA, CABINET EXTRA, KINGS, PANETEGCA DE LUXE, BANTAM - 








Acme 


Blackout: The eclipse from a plane 











SCIENCE 


The Sun in Technicolor 


It was the sun’s best show in thirteen 
years. Early on the morning of July 9, 





‘ millions of people scanned the heavens 


through dark glasses and telescopes for a 
glimpse of the first total eclipse visible 
in the United States since 1982. 

‘ The moon’s crossing in front of the sun 
could be seen in a 25-mile path, extend- 
ing from Idaho through Montana and 
into Canada, Greenland, Norway, Swed- 
en, Russia, and Siberia. All the new fa- 
cilities of science were trained on the 
phenomenon. Astronomers took specially 
equipped airplanes into the stratosphere. 
For the first time, color photography was 
used to record an eclipse. In Britain, 
physicists and astronomers planned radar 
studies for new data on the electrical 
waves and resultant echoes. Canadian 
scientists hoped to determine the flatness 
of the North and South Poles. A Soviet 
group sought new proof to complete 
Einstein’s theories of the nature and di- 
rections of space. ~ 

For 24 hours, radio announcers and 
reporters described the sun’s corona as it 
flashed out around the lunar disk. Then 
the scientists retired to their labora- 
tories. It would take three or four months, 
they said, to interpret fully the facts 
 camepster by their scientific gadgets in a 
ew quick seconds. : 


os 


Home-Grown Turkish 


Successful culture of high-quality 
Turkish tobacco in the United States, 
once .considered impossible, was an- 
nounced last week simultaneously at 
Duke University and at agricultural ex- 
periment stations in North and South 
Carolina and Virginia. 

Scientific methods demonstrated this 
summer at some 55 small farms in the 
three states may eventually cut down. the 
annual import of 50 to 75 million pounds 
of the so-called “Turkish” leaf from :Asia 











me 












from under 10 inches of sca water. 


————————————————— 
Minor which is used for blending with 
domestic tobacco in making American 
cigarettes. ~ : 

Planted close together (from 5 to 6 
inches apart and with 20 inches between 
rows), stalks of Turkish tobacco produce 
large quantities of small leaves about one- 
tenth the size of domestic tobacco. One 
acre will grow 55,000 to 60,000 Turkish 
plants, compared with 5,000 to 6,000 do- 
mestic plants. 

Harvesting the tiny Turkish leaves is a 
slow and laborious process. From six to 
nine hand “primings”—stripping the 
leaves as they mature, starting with the 
lower and working toward the top of the 
stalks—at intervals of five to nine days are 
necessary to collect all of ‘them. Strung 
on twine with a long, thin needle and sus- 
pended between sticks, the leaves are 
then left to wilt in a cool, humid place- 
for 86 to 72 hours, allowing certain 
chemical changes to take place. Later 
they are placed on racks, cured in the sun 
for five to fifteen days, compressed into 
bales, and stored for two or more years 
to permit development of the aroma. In 
this process, the handling of some million 
and a half leaves is required for each acre. 

Yet the Duke research, after five years, 
shows that from 700 to 900 pounds of 
excellent Turkish leaves can be grown in 
ohe acre of comparatively r soil. 





Turkish. tobacco’ brings a_ substantially 
‘ higher price per pound than does do- 
mestic leaf, and once the operation is 


under way, authorities consider an in- 
come of 


600 an acre probable. 





: Science Service 
Swimmie-Talkie: Through the lip- 
ometer, a microphone fitted with a spe- 
cial gland that passes air but excludes 

~water, a soldier who ducks in a beach- 
head landing still can talk to shore 











‘, Yes, it’s a fact! In war industries 


throughout the United States and 


Filmosound-projected motion 
pictures have repeat increased 
man-hour and machine- output. 

How? 


Well, Filmosound Movies give eas- 
ily understood training on bow to do 
specific jobs better and faster. 


They show why doing home-front 
jobs more efficiently is saving our 
fighters’ lives. 


They point out how inseparable the 
home-front and war-front really are. 


A great part of the success of sound 
motion pictures in industry is due to 
Bell & Howell Filmosound Projectors 
—preferred because of their profes- 
sional performance, lasting depend- 
ability, easy, cooler operation. 


So, if your plant is not getting the 
stimulus movies could furnish, let us 
help you plan a practical program. 
No cost, no obligation. Simply pia 
the coupon to your letterhead. 































































War Industries Can Buy 
Filmosounds NOW 


Petoskey ratings of AA1 will get you 
early delivery on today’s improved, 
cooler Filmosound 16mm. sound-on- 
film projectors. It’s because these ma- 
chines have proved so helpful in pro- 
duction-stimulating programs, that 
war industries’ needs are rated second 
only to the direct requirements of our 
Armed Forces. 


Bell & Howell Company, Chicago; 
New York; Hollywood; Washington, 
D. C.; London. Established 1907. 


‘Buy and Held More and Mere Wor Bonds 





BELL & HOWELL COMPANY 
7132 McCormick Road, Chicago 45 

Pi n¢ge to help us pla: for pro- 
ceeicacesvabateea’ Gar at mation pic- 
tures; ( ) postwar sales or sales-train- 
ing uses of films; and/or 






i im 
jectores ¢) Filmosound 

of films. 

Name... .cccccccccccccosescRmmocecerece 
FCC a = =—ss se 








City..... oF tate........ 





OPTI-ONICS— products combinieg the sciences of OP Tics @ electrONics « mechaslC$ 


VOU A 














88 


Ne —————— Ee 


* 





Casey at Two Bats 


Robert J. Casey, the rotund Celt from 
Chicago whose belly laughs have shaken 
press rooms from the Tenderloin to 
Tarawa, adds to the legend he has so 
sedulously cultivated over the years by 
becoming, this week, one of the few 
authors ever to have two new books pub- 
lished on the same day. 

Casey is a reporter who was never 
stopped short by the approach ‘of a fact 
and whose pudgy fingers have pinged 
out countless millions of words, so it will 
surprise no one who knows him that he 
should, accomplish this feat. Bob Casey 
probably could, if he wanted to, write 
two books at once, one with each hand, 
but unfortunately for the Casey legend 
this is not what happened. 

One of his books, “Battle Below,” a 
breathless tribute to the men of the sub- 
marines, was held up by Navy censorship. 
It was written in 1943. The ending of 
the submarine danger in the Atlantic led 
the Navy to release all long-pent-up pub- 





Through Irish Eyes: Casey of Chicago tells the story of the men who center Japanese ships in their periscope cross hairs 


licity on this daring branch of tlie serv- 
ice. In the meantime Casey’s other book, 
“This Is Where I Came In,” had been 
put together out of his dispatches from 
various fighting fronts. The sudden de- 
cision of the Navy made release of the 
books simultaneous. The book-store bat- 
tle of iral Casey versus General 
Casey will amusing to watch. 


All This and’9¥hjmsy, Too: Both 
books are bound to h ide sales, for 
Casey has a large following/built up dur- 
ing a hectic career that began before the 
last war. He has written some twenty 
books in the last twenty years—includ- 
ing a diary of the first world war called 
“The Cannoneers Have Hairy Ears,” a 
book of poetry, several mysteries, travel 
books, a novel or two, his justly popular 
potpourri of newspaper yarns, “Such In- 


BOOKS 


teresting People,” and his almost-great 
war book, “Torpedo Junction.” 

Casey writes a slam-bang newspaper 
prose that will never get him listed in 
the college textbooks as a stylist. He 
learned it in city rooms in Des Moines 


and Houston and perfected it on the re- 


write desk of The Chicago Evening 
American. Since 1920 he has served it 
hot and cold from every corner of the 
world to the readers of The Chicago 
Daily Néws, who are“almost as fond of 
Bob Casey as he is of himself. As a re- 
porter and rewrite man, he always has 
practiced what he preaches: “The value 
of laziness is a reporter’s asset if he 
knows how to get away with it.” He 
never takes notes, rarely barges into 
crowds to ferret out an elusive detail. 
“When you've got two details for a 
story, why look for a third?” Casey asks. 

The Casey style is a mixture of senti- 
mentalism, authentically tough humor, 
recognizable slang, plenty of adjectives 


‘and adverbs, and always a touch of 


whimsy. Casey uses it to report a world 


which he knows better than anyone else. 
He should. He invented it. When he 
writes of Chicago it is Casey’s Chicago, 
a city seen through his own Irish com- 
bination of stained glass and iron bars. 
When he writes of the war, it’s Casey’s 
war—not Ernie Pyle’s, or Bill Mauldin’s, 
just as his Chicago was never quite that 
of Ben Hecht. 

Both of Casey’s new books are good 
examples of Caseyesc, which means they 
range with lightning ease from the flam- 
boyant to the sentimental, from the 
mawkish to pretty nearly great reporting. 


Savs Admiral Casey: “Battle Below” 
is by far the better of the two books, per- 
haps because its subject is the fresher. 
Casey went after the story of the war 
of the submarines in the spring of 1943. 
Having been with the British Fleet in the 


























NewsweEEK, JuLy 28, 1945 


Mediterranean he was familiar with the 
German U-boat menace. He started out 
to learn the American Navy’s part in the 
ruthless warfare in Washington. Then he 
spent six weeks living with the subma. 
riners at New London, two weeks at 
Mare Island, and one at Portsmouth, 
N. H. He went down in old O-boats and 
in the latest models which, at his expert 
hands, make the inventions of the comic. 
strip artists pretty pale imaginings. 
Casey went out on patrol, and the 
legend is that his notorious belly laugh 
which inevitably follows his telling of his 
own tall tales scared away all enemy 
shipping. He spent four months—and 
couldn’t print a line. That’s why his book 
is now so welcome, for if it is old it tells 
some grand tales for the first time. Casey 
says he found the story of the subma- 
riners—as he learned it from the men 
who had been under the Java Sea, the 
Straits of Macassar, at Midway, Tokyo 
Bay, Buna, Guadalacanal, Dutch Har- 
bor, and in the cold Atlantic—“fantastic 
. incredible . . . and a little wacky.” 
As Casey tells the story it is all he says 
it was. And since the fantastic and wacky 


U. 8. Navy Photo 


is what Casey always seeks on his breath- 
less quest for copy, “Battle Below” is fas- 
cinating reading. And Casey’s insistence 
that there is no more agile a dodger of a 
fact in all reportorial history than he, is 
just a Casey boast. NEWSWEEK’s reviewer, 
having had considerable peacetime ex- 
perience with the men of the submarines, 
can testify in this instance to Casey's 
soundness as a reporter. 


Says General Casey: “This Is Where 
I Came In” is in a much more familiar 
pattern. Most of this book is-made up of 
cabled dispatches to his newspaper. It 
has the Casey quality and takes the read- 
er easily along with the reporter as he 
covered the European theater. It starts 
out with his account of the Mediterranean 
Fleet, goes through the tense pre-D Day 
hours in England, D Day itself, and then 





1. “Flying’s been my business...forthelast8 years. _ 
So I should know how flying can give pleasure 
—and help in business, too. After the war I’m 


ing to sell Cessnas again because that’s the The 
one that will be Cessna-Engineered for Safety.” 


and why they will 


— CHOOSE CESSNA/ 


Making it hot for Hirohito. This 
is one of Cessna’s heat-treating opera- 
tions, now working on parts for the fa- 
mous Boeing B-29’s, the great Tokyo- 
bound Superfortresses. Cessna, as part 
of its war job, is producing a score of 
important units for the Superfort, includ- 


ing rudders, dorsal fins, fins, elevators ~ 


and wing leading edges as well as the 
mammoth landing gears and engine cowl- 
ings for the famous Douglas A-26Invader. 

Postwar, this modern equipment and 
the priceless experience gained in high 
precision wartime work will be devoted 
to producing your new Cessna—an air- 
plane of all-metal structure. And Cessna’s 


electric-controlled heat-treatment will, 
for example, double the original strength 


of the aluminum going into your Family 


Car of the Air. 

That's an important reason why you'll 
choose Cessna, isn’t it? It gives added 
meaning to“ Cessna-Engineered for Safe- 
ty,” which will apply to the complete 
line of Cessnas. 

We'll continué helping to turn out 
Superfortresses and Invaders until the 
war is won...then comes a period for 
reconverting our plant...then the Cessna 
for which you'll be waiting. 


CESSNA AIRCRAFT COMPANY 
Box 1616-N, Wichita, Kansas 


2. “Farmers tied to 


ground? Not by a jugful. 
We live a long way from markets, supplies, 
entertainment. And time means money to us. 
pasture is perfect for a landing strip, the 
barn for a hangar, and a Cessna 


to ily. 


THREE TIMES JUDOED “THE WORLDS MOST EFFICIENT AIRPLANE” 


= 











NEWSWEEK, Jury 23, 1945 


———————————————————————————————————————————————————————— ee, 








Associated Press 


Sinatra points the finger at the USO’s “shoemakers in uniform” 


along the hard road through Normandy 
to the Siegfried Line. If it seems some- 
what more synthetic than “Battle Below,” 
it is nevertheless colorful, exciting, and 
whimsical—the old, familiar Bob Casey 
going back over a route he had once fol- 
lowed in retreat. 

It begins on a hill outside Longwy and 
it ends there. From that spot he had 
watched the,Germans roll into France in 
1940. Four years later, watching the Al- 
lies going the other way, Casey said: 

“I think I’ll-go home. This is where I 
came in.” 

And so Bob Casey is now back at Chi- 
cago, sitting at a desk, chuckling and 
rumbling over having two books pub- 
lished in one day and betting with him- 
self who'll win—the Admiral or the Gen- 
eral. The odds appear to be on the Ad- 
miral, but you never can tell about the 
luck of the Irish. Which they both are. 
(BATTLE BELOW: THE WAR OF THE 
SuBMARINEs. By Robert J. Casey. 380 
pages. $3.50. Tuts Is WHERE I CaME 
In. By Robert J. Casey. 307 pages. 
Bobbs-Merrill. $3.) 


ron 


When Knighthood Wilted 


Zofia Kossak, who wrote last year’s 
best-seller, “Blessed Are the Meek,” 
writes again of the Crusaders in her new 
historical novel, “The Leper King.” But 
this time she sets her story in Jerusalem, 
during the last years of the Christian 
kingdom. It was a period of internal 
strife, lost faith, and growing material- 
ism. The flower of knighthood was be- 
ginning to- wilt. 

King Baldwin IV, dying of leprosy at 
17, tries to choose a worthy successor to 
the throne. But his widowed sister mar- 
ries a not too bright, handsome young 
knight and crowns him king. Mrs. Kos- 
sak’s characterizations are a bit thin, but 
her pageantry is colorful and convincing. 
‘Tue Leper Kine. By Zofia Kogsak. 252 
pages. Roy Publishers. $2.50.) 





MUSIC 


La Voce and the USO 


Now it’s “La Voce.” At least that’s 
what his Italian female fans named Frank 





Sinatra during his first USO overseas tour. . 


Even the GI’s in Rome were sold on 
Frankie when he spoofed himself (wear- 
ing a flowing Fauntleroy tie and a 
Joe College turned-up hat) and had 
the girls of his troupe put on a mock 
swoon session while he sang in the 
packed Forum Mussolini. 

But last week, just after his return, The 
Voice blasted’ USO and Army Special 
Services for their handling of troop enter- 
tainment abroad. Charging that “shoe- 
makers in uniform” ran the Army’s enter- 
tainment division, Frankie said that in his 
entire tour of the Mediterranean and 
North African theaters he hadn’t met one 
Special Services officer who was in-show 
business before the war. One Army cap- 
tain in Rome, a former NBC page boy, 
even tried to show the maestro how to 
use a mike. Many of the USO shows are 
insulting to the GI’s intelligence, Sinatra 
added, and soldiers just walk out. 

The GI daily, Stars and Stripes, leaped 
to the defense: “It’s possible that Frankie 
was distraught and tired when he made 
the statement. He had just finished seven 
grueling weeks during which he sang 
several times a day, and in addition he 
had granted an audience to the Pope 
[NewsweEEk, July 2] and wised up His 
Holiness on the crooning racket, and that 
taxes one.” ‘i 

Defenders of the USO pointed out that 
Sinatra had been overseas only seven 
weeks—one of the shortest tours ever 
made by a big-name performer. They 
wondered why he hadn’t been abroad be- 
fore. Officially, USO was. noncommittal, 
merely saying that Sinatra had “done a 
fine job for us.” — 


To all this, Frankie replied plaintively 


in his defense: “I talked to thousands 
of guys over there . 
to beef about the shows.” 


eee 


Jack in the Juke Box 


The mad rush to make money in the 
recording business is getting worse. Since 
Victor and Columbia settled with James 
C. Petrillo last November, record com- 
panies large and small have been strain. 
ing hard—and cursing wartime limitations 
—to fill the demand for records and mz e 
records. The three big companies (Vic- 
tor, Columbia, and Decca) now have 
stiffer competition from hordes of the lit- 
tle fellows (NEWSWEEK, June 26, 1944). 
All of them want the same thing: a gen- 
erous slice of the postwar market, when 
the demand is expected to soar to 600,- 
000,000 records annually. 

This postwar figure is double what the 
public wanted in 1944—which the in- 
dustry couldn’t begin to fill with the 
100,000,000 or so platters it pressed. This 
year, production will jump (Victor alone 
expects its output to rise by some 15,- 
$00,000) but lack of new machinery and 
the manpower shortage continue to ham- 
string impatient manufacturers. 

In a recent survey by the trade maga- 
zine Billboard, bobby-sox fans were able 
to identify 65 different company labels 
of current disks. How many of these com- 
panies will survive on dealers’ shelves is 
anybody’s guess, but by last week, de- 
velopments pointed to several who will 
be sopping up plenty of the platter gravy 
after V-J Day. 


The Movies Jump In: The Big Three, 
of course, still top the field® and prob- 
ably will for some time. But the three- 
year-old Capitol company is slowly edg- 
ing up into the big time, with hush-hush 
production figures for the year placed at 
24,000,000—way above all the little 
manufacturers. The company is owned 
by the songsmith Johnny Mercer and 
B. G. de Sylva and has recently added 
Margaret O’Brien (to do children’s 
stories) and the radio team of Fibber 
McGee and Molly to such regular sing- 
ing artists as Jo Stafford and Mercer 
himself. Much of the company’s financing 
comes from de Sylva, a producer for 
Paramount pictures. 

Capitol is only one of the companies in 
which Hollywood money is tied up. Pro- 
ducer Boris Morros put his hoard into his 
new ARA (American Recording Artists) 
firm, which stars Hoagy Carmichael 
(NEwswWEEK, June 4). Big picture com- 
panies, who already control a number 0 
music-publishing houses in Tin Pan Al- 
ley, are jumping on this new bandwagon. 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, for example, has 
formed a record company tentatively 
titled Lion. Trade experts point out that 
M-G-M picture artists will be invited to 





®Estimated 1945 output: Victor, 60,000,000; 
a, 965,000,000- pulling ahead of Columbia’s 


. . They asked me | 

















Now 


a Jota atgyd ARS wap aw 


Re 2 
& oe , < 
Ww 


Sad Color Hearing... New Style...New Value 


o will 
gravy 


A Bell Telephone Laboratories Achievement 


. @ It’s new... it’s the climax of 63 years cient . . . the basis of the Army-Navy THE INSIDE STORY OF 


of work and research in sound transmis- 

sion. Yes, the Western Electric Model 63 
sets new hearing aid standards . . . in 
engineering and design. 

Not content to think in terms of 
speech alone—Bell Telephone Labora- 

‘tories has engineered Western Electric 
Hearing Aids to deliver a wider band of 
frequencies . . . bringing you more of the 
tones and overtones that add color to 
the world of sound. 

You can hear the difference! With 
Model 63 there’s sparkle and laughter in 
children’s voices . . . you hear more than 
just the center keys of a piano . «. you 
can enjoy the radio . . . the symphony 
... movies... really hear at church. 

Model 63 sets a new design standard, 
too. It is smaller, lighter, and its curved, 
body-fitting case affords new wearing 
co 


The half-ounce receiver is highly effi- 


Western Electric Medel 63 Hearing Aid 


lightweight headsets.. 

And Model 63 sets a new value for™ 
electronic precision . . . performance . .. 
style. Consult your doctor about any 
hearing difficulty. If you need a hearing 
aid, try “Full Color” hearing with Model 
63. See your Western Electric Hearing 
Aid dealer—you'll find his name under 
“Hearing Aids” in the Classified Tele- 
phone Directory. Or write Western 
Electric, Dept. .380-K3, 195 Broadway, 
New York 7, New York. 


LOR HEARING MEANS 


MODEL 63.GIVES UNDISTORTED 
AMPLIFICATION OF THIS WIDE BAND 


TLALALLANLLSE RNS 
if 


MANY HEARING AIDS CONCENTRATES 
AMPLIFICATION WITHIN THIS NARROW BAND 


_ CLIMAXING 63 YEARS OF WORK AND RESEARCH IN SOUND 


MODEL 63 


Only two controls . . . operated with fingertip ease. 
(1) Tone Discriminator . .. combined with “on and 
off” switch . . . enables you to filter out annoying 
background noise and still hear sounds you want. 
(2) Volume Control . . . smooth and easy sound 
regulation . . . doesn’t have to be teset every time 


Sensitive Crystal Micro- 
phone picks up sound from 
every direction. 

Three Miniature Electron 
Tubes for full amplification. 
Replaceable without sold- 
ering. 

Twin Clip that stays-put on 
any type of wearing apparel. 
Streamlined Plastic Case 
curved to body contour. 
Slimmest Cord — flexible — 
sturdy—inconspicuous. 


Cou 
Wao | | 


Recelver—air or 

bone conduction, 
’} of aviation headset 

accuracy. 


Model 63 employs the famous Western Electric 
Stabilized Feedback Circuit—to minimize tonal 
distortion. All parts are standard and readily inter- 
changeable without costly factory charges 





yt Oy) fc Vay phe Li Vi U0 Y COS S 


PANAGRA 55 
Proposed PANA 


Connecting 


P7UN FV RIO TN GhACH -TIRVW TEs 


CMRYVSEER MOTI DING SEW VORA 


) PANAMA + COLOMBIA + ECUADOR = PERU + BOLIVIA + BRAZIL © CHILE 


* ARGENTINA 


Is THINS AN 
“ALL WEAAVTTIER: 
FRIENID 7 


‘MYERS'S 
PLANTERS’ PUNCH 


The Old Jamaica Plantation 
_ Formula 

TO BE SERVED VERY COLD 

IN A FALL GLASS 

ONE OF SOUR 

(1 part fresh lime juice) 

TWO OF SWEET 

(2 parts sugar) 

THREE OF STRONG: ‘ 

(3 parts of Myers’s Jamaica> 

Rum) 

FOUR OF WEAK 

(4 parts crushed ice) 


92 : NEWSWEEK 


become exclusive M-G-M recording © 
artists—to the loss of thg disk companies 
with which they now are signed. 

Until last week, Warner Bros. was set 
in records, with 25 per cent of Decca’s 
stock. But Decca, ever the independent, 
didn’t want to be hampered in choice of 
releases, and bought its freedoin from 
Warners for more than $4,000,000. War- 
ners will probably go shopping again. 


Jimmy Swallows One: Nor will the 
phonograph, radio, and television groups 
be left out. Radio Corp. of America owns 
Victor. Philco is looking for a record firm 
to invest in. And Majestic. Radio and 
Television Corp. has already bought one 
of the biggest small fry, Hit—along with 
the contracts of such current favorites as 
Louis Prima and his band. Reorganized 
some four months ago, Majestic Records 
is now headed by Jimmy Walker, New 
York’s former mayor. 

The genial Jimmy has big plans. When 
Majestic took over, Hit was pressing 


_ about 2,600,000 revords yearly. The Ma- 


jestic label now has three plants which 
Walker hopes to have in operation “as 
soon as it’s humanly possible.” 

Most touted of the new independents 
is Cosmopolitan, which issued its first re- 
leases this week. Headed by Harry W. 
Bank, former tax consultant for the 
amusement industry, Cosmopolitan has 
snared Joan Edwards, Gertrude Niesen, 
and the bandleader. Coleman Hawkins in 
the popular field, and Oscar Straus, Vien- 
nese composer, to bolster the forthcoming 
classical wing. 

Cosmopolitan is currently issuing about 
100,000 records a week, and is shooting 
for 40,000,000 a year. Their plant is at 
the former Frank Buck Jungle Camp in 
Massapequa, L.I., where records and 
machinery are made in what used to be 
the lion and elephant houses. Abandoned 
circus wagons still stand around adver- 
tising “Sammy the Great Ape”—probably 
the only two-handed creature. who hasn't 
been urged to take a job. 











Ives, the newest young Aldrich 





RADIO 
Henry the Fourth 


Seven years ago the scrabbly voice of 
Henry Aldrich first jarred against the 





ears of radio listeners. In a guest spot on . 


the Rudy Vallee program, Ezra: Stone, 
who created the character of Henry in a 
Broadway play, did the two-octave vocal 
acrobatics that have since become part 
and parcel of the Aldrich Feir. 

In nothing flat The Aldrich Family 
(CBS, Friday, 8-8:30 p.m., EWT) blos- 
somed into a full-time program and has 
since weathered a number of imitators 
and a series of sponsors. However, the 
program has been haunted by one re- 
current bugaboo: Uncle Sam. 

Ezra Stone was drafted in 1941, and 
the dragnet was put out for a young man 
with a Henry voice and a perfect gravel 
tone to his “Coming, mother.” Norman 
Tokar was found, but soon lost—to the 
Army. Dick Jones, who anticked through 
Henry's part until last month, is now a 
paratrooper. 

Last week, after three months of audi- 
tioning boys from coast to coast, a new 
Henry Aldrich—the foufth—was signed. 
He is Raymond Ives from Brooklyn. The 
son of an Ellis Island ferryboat pilot, 
young Ives was 17 on July 16 and pro- 
gram executives are breathing easier, for 
at least another year. 


Baseball's Golden Voices - 

Back in the’’20s, Ring Lardner sat next 
to Graham McNamee and heard him de- 
scribe a World Series game for a handful 
of crystal-set listeners. Afterward, Lard- 


$ 












et 
THERE'S 
BEAD CHAIN ON 
A BOMBER'S OXYGEN 
FILLER VALVE*—— 











Oxygen Bier valve 
made by The Bastian- 
Blessing Si Chicage, 


HE oxygen our airmen breathe at stratospheric heights is piped 
through their planes under pressure, like the water in your 
home, Two lengths of BEAD CHAIN are used on the filler valve 
through which the reservoirs are charged, One holds an important 
adapter and the other the valve seal plug. If your postwar product 
has removable parts which should not be lost, consider BEAD 
CHAIN .... it’s practical and attractive and it can’t kink, 


BEAD CHAIN IS A MULTI-SWAGE PRODUCT 


MULTI-SWAGE is the most economical method of producing small 
SS metal .parts to close tolerances without waste. Most electronic tube 
contacts today are made by MULTI-SWAGE. Our Research and 
Development Division will help in the engineering of post-war products. 







THE BEAD CHAIN MANUFACTURING CO. 


MOUNTAIN nove AND STATE STREETS, BRIDGEPORT 5, CONN. 


pep? cnn | 


° 
rs 
O gs 
c « 
ree 











TEACHER'S 


Perfection ot Blended Scotch Whisky 


SOLE U. S. AGENTS: Schieffelin & Co., NEW YORK CITY + IMPORTERS SINCE 1794 


Delta is the 


shortest line between 
19 POINTS 





ALEXANDRIA, lo. 
ATLANTA, Go. 
AUGUSTA, Go. 
BATON ROUGE, lo. 
BIRMINGHAM, Alo. 
CHARLESTON, S.C. 
CINCINNATI, Ohio 
COLUMBIA, S.C. 
DALLAS, Texos 


FORT WORTH, Texas 


JACKSON, Miss. 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
MERIDIAN, Miss. 
MONROE, la. 

NEW ORLEANS, le. 
SAVANNAH, Go. 
SHREVEPORT, lo. 
TYLER, Texas 


t Afr Line Sery 


94. NEWSWEEK 
——————_—_[—_—_[_[_[_[_{£[ ae 


ner was asked how he liked the game. He 
grinned: “I lixea ‘em both.” 

Although both Lardner and McNamee 
have died, baseball broadcasting has 
turned into a big-business profession. Al] 
big-league games, except Cleveland, and 
many in the minor leagues are now coy. 
ered by local stations. The World Series 
is an annual commercial radio affair car. 
ried coast-to-coast. 

But in its essence, baseball broadcast. 
ing hasn’t changed. Ring Lardner could 

ill enjoy both games. For the broad. 
casters invariably become a part of the 
team whose games they cover—and a 
good one is as important to the fans as 
a no-hit pitcher—and usually puts on as 
good a show. Two of the most typical 
are Red Barber and Arch McDonald. 


Brooklyn Corn: Winner of uncounted 
broadcasting and sportsmanship awards, 
Walter Lanier (the ‘ole Redhead) Bar- 
ber is probably the nation’s best baseball 
broadcaster. Unlike many of this col- 
leagues, the Brooklyn Dodgers’ official 
mouthpiece has never played professional 
baseball. He intended to be an English 
teacher. Today, Barber is a speech per- 
fectionist, talking in soft, Mississippi ac- 
cents spiked with Barber idioms. A Barber 


glossary—with translations: 


Sitting in the catbird seat: Everything 
is going your way 

I'll be a suck-egg mule: Red is pretty 
concerned 

A can ’a corn: An easy-to-catch fly ball 
F.O.B.: The bases are full of Brooklyns 
The bottom of the pickle vat: The Bums 
are in bad trouble 


The Brooklyns eat it up. So do mil- 
lions of fans who have heard Barber 
broadcast nine World Series—most fre- 
quently partnered with Bob Elson, Chi- 
cago’s ace sportscaster, now in the Navy. 
As is the almost universal rule, Barber 
never broadcasts alone, but spells off with 


Barber, the suck-egg mule 








Namee 
ig has 
on. All 
d, and 
W COYy- 
Series 
‘ir car- 


adcast- 

could 
broad. 
of the 
and a 
ans as 
on as 
typical 
ald. 


unted 
wards, 
) Bar- 
aseball 
S col- 
official 
ssional 
nglish 
h per- 
pi ac- 


Barber 
hing 
retty 
ball 


lyns 
jums 


0 mil- 
3arber 
t fre- 
, Chi- 
Navy. 
3arber 
F with 








Jory 23, 1945 ; 95 
wat - —— Lice EA Seamer 





an assistant—cufrently Connie Desmond. 
It is one of Barber’s superstitions that the 
assistant always take the seeond and 
sixth innings. That way, Barber thinks 
there is no danger of a jinx. 

When Brooklyn is playing out of town, 
Barber broadcasts the game from WHN 
studios in New York, picking up the plays 
as they come in on a Western Union wire. 
Barber sits down for homg games, but to 
keep out-of-town, descriptions vivid, he 
stays on his feet in the studio. “You can’t 
get sleepy that way,” he explains. 


Washington Ham: Arch McDonald 
is the heavy, outspoken, 44-year-old 
broadcaster for the Washington Senators 
and a leading ham in Washington’s ama- 
tur theater. His most celebrated effort 
was the title role in “The- Old Soak,” 
which caused Clark Griffith, owner of 
the Senators, to remark: “It’s the first 
time I’ve ever seen anyone train 40 years 
for a role. He ought to be good.” 

On the air, McDonald’s' deep, dry 
wice lacks all the qualities of good radio. 
But his homespun personality reflects the 
mood of the most rabid fan in the $1.10 
seat. It won him an accolade from ex- 
Vice President John .Garner as_ the 
“World’s Greatest Baseball Announcer,” 
a statement with which neither Wash- 
ington nor McDonald Pe vari would 
disagree. McDonald (like Barber he is 

msored by Old Gold cigarettes) can 

ost repeat baseball statistics by rote. 
Long ago, he had to list his phone number 
privately to cut off the professionals, 
writers, and pool-room habitués who 
plagued him for obscure facts. One sta- 
tistic, however, still makes’ Arch’ shud- 


der: his own record for continual micro- ° 


phone performance. Broadcasting a 
doubleheader from Boston as it came in 
on the wire, Arch sat at his Washing- 


ton microphone alone and talked base-. 


ball for seven hours — nonstop — includ- 
ing the between-game intermission. 


McDonald, the expert Old Soak. 











Hor Woonwld You bark. 


TO HAVE 15,000 


LABOR SAVING DEVICES? 


Perhaps. Los Angeles may never make quite that 
many, but Los Angeles manufacturers are going 
to try! Indeed, they have listed hundreds and 
hundreds of war-inspired inventions they plan to 
manufacture and sell when peace comes. 


Already household and consumer items are being 


made and sold by some Southern California war- 


created plants. One of them now offers more than 


1700. jobs in the manufacture of consumer items. 


. . » jobs that were non-existent before the war! 


We think you will be interested in the postwar 
plans of our ew industries. For they are plans 
that assure more jobs, bigger peacetime pay rolls 
than Los Angeles ever had before, that will aug- 
ment our already established and prosperous econ- 
omy. We'd like to give you this story, told in 
our booklet, ‘An Eye to the Future.” It takes but 
a penny for our thoughts—just drop a postcard 
to THE TIMES or to our representatives. 


“Everybody's Newspaper” 
in Southern California 





DOMINANT NEWSPAPER OF AMERICA’S THIRD LARGEST 


® 


Ah . 








go 


_ 


NeEwsweEK, JULY 23, 1945 








Perspective 


Registered . S. Patent Office 





Poland and the Big Three 


by RAYMOND MOLEY 











ne 


man 


Adds to the 
and health of 
wounded veteran 


der “‘Eclipse’’ 


vv 


to zero F. 


a staff and crew 


Ask for your copy 


Freon-12 
fy: air-conditioning, wat 


. erating work. 


FRI 





comfort 
the 600 
$s aboard 


the Hospital Ship ‘Wis- 
teria’’. Two Frick 6-cylin- 


compres- 


sors, driven by steam en- 
gines as shown below, 
supply a cooling effect 
‘equal to the melting of 
30,000 Ib. of ice daily. 
Temperatures range down 


The “Wisteria” carries 


number- 


ing 344. Now in active 
service, the ship has al- 
ready been made famous 
by radio broadcast and 
magazine articles. 


Frick “Eclipse” compressors are 
built with 3, 4, or 6 cylinders. 


of Bulietin 


100, telling how these superior 
compressors 


handle 
er cooling, 


food storage, and similar refrig- 


CK 


COMPANY 


Waynesboro, 


Penna. 



































Ic, as seems inevitable, the Pots- 
dam coference reaffirms previous 
agreements, a new Polish nation will 
emerge from this war with a better 
chance of survival than any of the ear- 
lier Polands. Its resources and possi- 
bilities are likely to quiet much of the 
storm and controversy which have at- 
tended its deliverance. 

It seems certain that the new Po- 

land, bounded by the Cur- 
zon Line on the east, will 
cut through East Prussia to 
a point southwest of Kénigs- 
berg on the Baltic and pro- 
vide a seacoast stretching 
about 200 miles west to the 
mouth of the Oder. The 
western frontier will have to 
be determined by the Big 
Three, but it will probably 
include the agricultural ter- 
ritory east of the Oder in 
the north and the rich region of Upper 
Silesia, which includes coal and_- iron 
mines and large industrial properties, 
among which are vast electrical plants 
and a part of Germany's biggest ce- 
ment works. The total area of Poland 
will be between 110,000 and 120,000 
square miles. The area of prewar Po- 
land was about 150,000 square miles. 
The new population will be between 
25 and 30 millions, compared with a 
prewar 85 million. It will be more pre- 
dominantly Polish than before. The 
new Poland will have not only Danzig 
and Gdynia, but two or three other 
good ports. The whole course of the 
Vistula will be Polish down from 
Czechoslovakia to the sea. The old net- 
work of canals developed by Frederick 
the Great and his successors will be 
Polish. As an economic unit, the new 
Poland will be richer and more man- 
ageable than the prewar nation. 
' If Poland is to enjoy the full benefit 
of these territorial acquisitions, it will 
be necessary to move, bag and bag- 
gage, three or four million Germans— 
mostly fanatical Nazis—into what re- 
mains of Germany. 


This bold and unprecedented 
carving out of new frontiers, with a 
wholesale moving of population, will 
be difficult. But its doing is the essen- 
tial price to be paid for security. It is 
better to face it and do it than to en- 
dure the threat of another war. 

There will be lamentations over this 
operation in Germany for generations. 





And there will be plenty of propa- 
ganda in England, the United States 
and Russia to the effect that in the dis- 
memberment of Germany is the sure 
seed of another war. But the United 
Nations have no choice. Either these 
boundaries must be made and made 
now or the whole tragedy of the past 
will happen, over again: 

The new Poland will for some time 
have the discomfort of liv- 
ing between a beaten but 
resentful Germany and a co- 
lossal but distrusted Russia. 
That is the sentence, how- 
ever, of a court of final juris- 
diction — .geography. The 
outcome will be determined 
by the degree to which the 
new United Nations char- 
ter can operate in a practical 
situation, by the forbear- 
ance of Russia and by the 
quality of government which Poland 
can develop over the years. 

Certainly, the politics of prewar Po- 
land wills have to be improved upon. 
For centuries democracy has made lit- 
tle progress in Poland. The democracy 
which followed 1919 ended in the Pil- 


- sudski authoritarianism and the rule of 


the “clique of colonels.” Minorities 
were subjected to severe restrictions, - 
and, finally, in 1935, Beck and Smigly- 
Rydz headed a thoroughly illiberal na- 
tion. If the United Nations is to be any- 
thing but a name, any repetition of 
this might be prevented—by outside 
force, if necessary. 

The present -ayevaieerse of 
the London Poles, the. remains of the 
reactionary government of 1989, is due 
to the emotional shock of recent 
events, But the maintenance of such a 


. shadow regime, which seeks to use its 


haven of refuge to suggest resistance 
to the new government, cannot be 
tolerated. There is a sinister tone in 
the recent proclamation of a Polish 

neral to the Polish armies abroad 

at they will “return to Poland, but 
only with arms in hand.” The Big 
Three should determine who will re- 
turn where and who will bear arms 
and what arms will be used for. 

The new Poland will have every 
available means to build a p: rous 
and peaceful nation, except, the 
moment, unity.. That will come with 
time, assisted by the firmness and pa- 
tience of the three great powers. - 

















“T asked for it!” writes a Connecticut friend of Canadian 
Club Whisky about an asado—or barbecue—at a cattle 
estancia near Buenos Aires. “I winced upon seeing a steer 
lassoed with the three-pronged gaucho boleadores ...where- 
upon my hosts demonstrated, with me as the target, that prop- 
erly-thrown boleadores grip no worse than a strong handclasp. 


“Today it’s a land of mechanized 
“The feast came none too soon. And what a ranches and wheat fields, and an in- 
feast !—in a way, almost an historical occasion. dustrial giant. Nearby, too— for tomorrow 
For, I was told, the gaucho is a vanishing type. the Pan American Clippers will fly you 
Today’s Argentina moves on wheels—and wings. here from home ports in just a day, 


2 “But that was a cinch compared to 4 
my first fling at la sortija, popular 3 

asado game. They suspend a small ring 

from a thread. You’re supposed, at a full 

gallop, to spear the ring with a dagger. 


5 “But don’t expect all your thrills here to be Argentine- 
made. For, whether in Buenos Aires or out on the pampas, 

you'll find hosts offering you Canadian Club just as proudly 

as it’s served at home!” 

Once the war is over, you will find it even easier than 

now to visit Latin America. There you will find Canadian Club 

again. This whisky is light as Scotch, rich as rye, satisfying 

as bourbon—yet there is no other whisky in all the world that 

tastes like Canadian Club. You can stay with Canadian Club 

all evening long—in cocktails before dinner and tall ones after. 

That’s why Canadian Club is the largest-selling imported 

whisky in the United States. 


IN 87 LANDS NO OTHER WHISKY TASTES LIKE 


Imported from Walkerville, Canada, by Hiram Walker & Sons Inc., Peoria, Ill. Blended Canadian Whisky. 90.4 proof 








Copyright 1945, Liccert & Mytrxs Tosacco Go. 


4. 
COOLER SMOKING ae 


That means you ‘offer Chesterfields with every . 
confidence .. . for when it comes to Y ki 
good cigarette, there are no short cuts . 
second-bests. Gu : 

: the ane yee 





