The Press Listens to Criticism
but Remains Above Its Critics
ste ~.*- BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The’-flagellants in the grpssional committees and the time element. That
Middle Ages were curious. ~ newspaper. criticism the must be determined by the
people. who sought salva-. networks might not-have nature of ‘the medium,
tion by. whipping them-:." put.their minds-on some  , *

» “selves. Th the mecting.of, measures of-self-reform. A newspaper is in the
the- American Society’ of a arn reader’s hands. If he re-
Newspaper Editors, the’ _-But more important. quires considerable time
press invited eminent crit. thah “these cases of un- to comprehend an item, he
des.to lay a few lashes upon | usual abuses’ might. have _ can take it. People vary in
‘their. own bent shoulders,. ee™ consideration Of the “ their capacity to compre-
a .- .,.... Yespective values of news- hend and think. He may

One of the critics was papers: and ‘radio-T'V in also choose the time of day
‘Robert. Moses, who for, what might be called the when he is ‘best able to
Many years has held sev-- informing and education read and: reread if he
eral jobs dedicated to the of the public in public af- wishes. With the increas-
rebuilding of New ‘York fairs. Since an enlightened © ing complexity of world
City.. Adlai. Stevenson public is essential to the © and national affairs, the
came fo inform the editors preservation. of free insti- citizen to be well informed
Of their sins and omissions.- tutions,"all meavs.of com- must chew and digest the
Dr. Prank Stanton, presi munication ‘bear a heavy news.

lent of th ibility, aa 5
Broadcasting System, was responsibility = If the subject is contro-
the third critic. oo ®& versial, a. newspaper can
: ae oye. .,. \ State the facts in the news
- _ ‘The Moses speech com- ,, It is clear that despite nq then interpret and
plained about newspaper the vast labors and money Voice its opinion in its edi-
attacks: upon his adminis- which radio-TV has spent toriais, Radio and televi-
tration of certain housing 0M disseminating newsand ign can offer spot news,
projects in his city. Ste- in presenting discussions (fren hours ahead of the
venson pointed out how Of public issues'the basic race, But I doubt whether
the opposition party might‘ Feliance of the public must they can-ever provide an
be aided by more gentle: be:upon newspapers, adequate exposition of in-
treatment. “, * Radio and, to a’ greater terpretation and opinion.
ot “ots. degree, television are mee A time element is. in-

" ” “dia'whose primary func- ° volved.

Stanton invited a com-, tion must be entertain- *
parison between the press’ ment. In‘ that field they
and the.air waves. He also have almost unlimited po- Also, sponsors hesitate
took the occasion to pay tentials. In the daily news- to back programs of opin-
back certain scores made. paper. the.presentation of ion because they want to
against his media by the news, plus interpretation sell their products to peo-
press last year during the and opinion, is a primary ple of all points of view.
exposures of rigged quiz and traditional responsi- Ina panel show present-
shows, payola and over- bility. . : ing opposing views or Ioad-
emphasis on violence. In the presentation of ed questions, the verdict
There had also been men- news, its interpretation goes to the glib and the
tioned the excessive intru-. and editorial. comment, _coiner of phrases,
sion of commercials in en- there is a time factor Reading can never be
tertainment programs. which must keep the news- replaced by hearing and

The editors took.all the papers at an advantage. seeing. In meeting the
criticism in good humor, What one hears.and sees need of democratic institu-
although in the case of over the-air waves is im- tions for a thoroughly in-
Stanton they might have parted momentarily and is formed public, the air
replied that if it had.not gone. Thosé who hearand waves can never match

. been for exposures by.com- sée are not the masterg of _ the services of a free press.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

