| . ; . : : wo :
e AFL-CIO Still Favors Free
e . e oo
Trade--but With Reservations
.. . BY RAYMOND MOLEY: .

The AFL-CIO in its through tariffs and quotas. apparel, plateware, type-
comprehensive economic Others have shown grow- writers, sewing machines,
and political: ideology has ing concern over the ris- brass fabricating and rub-
embraced many plans for ‘ing tide of goods flowing. ber footwear, :

is Country’s future. Now from foreign assembly “Substandard wa e lev

- it would cradle to its am- lines and shops. ' . Be
ple bosom the vastly com- _; els or working conditions
plex ‘matter of trade in _* . ae ee evidence of the

. the free world. It would Today, the AFL-CIO SFr ne & waar COMPS
accomplish this by eco- clings to free trade in its tton in internation:
nomic.persuasion or, to be Program for mankind but al trade and should be
more accurate, economje with certain very interest- eliminated as rapidly as

* coercion. ing qualifications. The Possible,” says the resolu-
' However, one of the most, astonishing is itg tion. .

enets of the AFL-ClO has or the imposition o “ ow
been free trade, and this “fair labor. standards in where it elearedemone

- Was unobjectionable to international trade.” The jt oteg that ‘obs. are be-

- Most of its affiliated AFL-CIO economic policy ino Jost by “American
unions so long as the committee has spelled out weckers Y nsideration

* United States enjoyed an how this should be done: be given to the ‘placing of
for good many years fol- y,"There should be an ob- adequate protective tris

: ligation upon all countries
lowing World War IL. to see to it that wages arfd other products that
. * and working conditions in are affected by foreign im-
. exporting industries fully ports which now enter

But as vigorous, re- reflect the productivity this country free and clear
sourceful peoples, aided and the degree of techno- of any import duties.”

_ by huge recovery pro- logical advance of such in- *

“ grams irom the United  qustries and of the nation- :

States, replaced their al economy.” Any exhorting by the
smashed and worn produc- United States of other
tion facilities with more Following a rambling countries to see to it that
‘and better equipment and discussion in which extra- thoy change their econom-

:.mew assembly lines, in neous statistics are used ic oe Mould be unfortu-
many cases superior to to prove that the “United 7? va Gomagine to oar
those in the United States is not out-priced,” ed 7 The we pecition ar

States, this country's posi- the committee maintains ROSH Ar UMPHSOOn
tion in the world’s mar- that to compete im the sPmesti= Po leies Oy italy
kets faced imminent and world market, “American stone tori The, we aie

“ very rough competition. companies are going to 8 wa fe past, ands
have to buckle down to a We Stand for nothing e

US. producers ran hard real selling job if they are We stand for freedom and
into the challenge of the tg retain the markets they self-determination by our

* industrial plant capacity guilt up in the years ‘tiends throughout the
Some found that theip ia, Whew, the United States wort

' bor costs made it impos- had wittle monbetition mn , This does not mean that
sible to compete abroad or voluntar! nf din ane Tat
even against imports in * ies, inclu me e do
this country. Some folded, _ ed States, might not do
Recently the Connecti- well to reassess their

cut. back, turned to other . . .
lines, or established sub. Cut State Labor Council, economies to determine
_ ‘sidiari AFL-CIO, at its conven- what they can produce

sidiaries abroad. ; 7

tion underlined the com- most efficiently. The free

Many local unions have mittee’s views. Connecti- world is undergoing dy-
been alarmed by these de- cut, a resolution points namic change, and its
velopments and have out, has been hard hit by economies are subject to
urged greater protection imports of textiles, hats, this condition.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

