, f . fi «
Sen. Kennedy's Classification
of Presidents | Hist
; g y
| BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In a recent speech he- well traveled in the early H. Taft and William Mc-
fore that Washingtonian days of F, D. R. That in- Kinley are called “weak.”
“House of Intellect,” the defatigable recruiter of But let us see.

National Press Club, Sen. Harvard talent, Prof. Fe- McKinley was the gen-
John F. Kennedy re- lix Frankfurter, commut-  tlest and most patient of
opened the old academic ed thereon. And loads of men. But his vision of
game of classifying Presi- one-way riders moved American interests moved
dents as “strong” and from the “world of our defenses westward,
“weak.” thought” to jashington. first to Hawaii and then
. ‘any are still there. Two — to a self-governing ally in

ange zon plenty, of notable ones are brain- the Philippines. the held

before the senator aw trusting for Sen. Lyndon off war with Spain until

Johnson. Congress was ready to de-
the light of day. I started clare, with or without
to teach political science * Presidential approval.

“iti good reason for the omis- terms of peace provided
and my expositions were &° : for the protection of
full of the accepted plati- Sion of that incomparable Ameri pr Tevests ta th
tudes, which I regret, ‘ablethumper and chau- American iterests to the
That was before I knew  Vinist, James K. Polk, who south and far east. With
Ps i was elected on the inde- his great secretary of

omething about real F tate, thi h the “
Presidents, rather than fensible challenge to Eng- state, throug: je “open
Presidents in books. land, “51-40 or fight.” If door” policy, he prevent-

" we had made good on ed the partition of China

As examples of “strong” that, and had England by rapacious European
Presidents, Kennedy men- yielded, the United States powers. At home he re-
tioned first Franklin D. Would now have senators stored the confidence
Roosevelt, then Jackson, from the richest part of which brought prosperity
Lincoln, Teddy Roosevelt, British Columbia. \ to farms and jobs to work-
Wilson and Truman. This © But having been elect- ers.
is the mythology preva- ed, Polk turned south and, *

Jent in academic circles jin a war later denounced
today. by Lincoln and Grant as After nearly eight years
* unwarranted (Woodrow of T. R's shouting about
; Wilson called it “inexcus- trusts and evil tariffs, Taft

I suspect the hand of able aggression”), tore had the courage to tackle
certain academicians in away the greater part of the latter and really do
the senator’s speech, In Mexico. . Something about the for-
any event, the theory Perhaps Kennedy's mer. His tariff bill made
runs parallel with the po- omission was due to the him unpopular with farm-
litical historiology of Prof. fact that Polk defeated a ers, who never scem to he
Arthur Schlesinger Jr. bi- senator, Henry Clay, who happy. And his quiet suits
ographer of Jackson and was selected by Kennedy busted the Standard Oil
FDR. himself a few years ago and tobacco trusts.

My suspicion is invigor- as ome of the five great- He inherited @ financial-
ated by the significant est. Clay’s three defeats ly bankrupt reclamation
sentence: “He (the next established the tradition mess which T. R. had
President) must reopen that senators are not very loudly proclaimed as his
the channels of communi- good candidates for Presi- greatest domestic achieve
cation between the world dent. © ment. And Taft, not T. R.,
of thought and the seat of The fallacy in this com- was years later proved
power.” mon Classification of Pres- right in the controversy

If this means anything, idents as “strong” and over Interior Secretary
it says that the turnpike “weak” is that it identi- Baltinger.
should be opened between fies noise, publicity and Sen, Kennedy proves
the senator's alma mater, table - thumping with that a little knowledge of
Harvard, and the White achievement. In this sophe history is a dangerous
House. That highway was omoric category, William thing.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

