Can the Air Force Be Relied U
S « « . . ?
to Spend Its Billions Efficiently:
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The storied and multi: speaker of the House he million annually for the
ribboned generals of the had some interesting next several years because
Air Force, those gentle- things to say about how of the inadequacy of the
men of the “wild blue the Air Force handles and Air Force's long-range pro-
yonder,” are dedicated! mishandles ground-bound gram for replacing vehi-
men They are dedicated vehicles. cles, a program that was
to the supremacy of our . adopted in the 1959 fiscal
nation inthe air and in maiatenaes et vehicle year.
the spaces beyond the air. taxpayers an oo meted $3 This wanton toss of
They have valiant expo- mnittion over the fast three money did not take place
nents of the contention ears because of the post- hecause the eyes of the Air
that the Air Force, along janement of the purchace Force were exclusively
with the other services, Gr new vehicles as replace- turned upon the heavens
needs more money for de- ments for those thetwere in a search for satellites.
fense. Among these are worn out. The Air Force knew al!
members of Congress, gen- . along about this inade-
erate active and rete * quacy of its vehicle re-
and especially the Demo- . . Jace t pro, . But it
cratic aspirants for the __ ‘The terse advice of Cal- Failed to explain it to Cone
Presidency. vin Coolidge to “wear ’em press when its budget re-
The specifications of Air OUL Use “em up,” May  cuests were considered in
Force needs are Inst on commend itself to some. any of the years since 1956.
the average citizen he- Making-do” is an old - :
cause of demands of se- -\merican tradition. But *
crecy and the immense the comptroller general Air Force repair casts
complications of such cos- points out how thriflless ph icles are among the
mic matters. such a custom is in this in- hi ee
stance. highest, if they are not the
* highest, in the entire gav-
He states that the Air ermment. In one two-year
But we can all under- Force had, as of Septem- period $91,000 was spent
stand something about the — her, 1957, an inventory of for repairs on 37 vehicles
care and upkeep of auto- about 187,500 vehicles rep- which originally cost only
mobiles and trucks, And resenting an investmentof 868.000. On 11 of these ve-
most believe that the nearly $l billion. Thefail- hicles the repair costs in
measure of a service's ef- ure of the Air Force to set one year exceeded the orig-
ficiency can be fairly well up an adequate replace- inal cost.
judged by what it is do- ment program has cost $5 A 1930 sedan which cost
Ing about such small mat- million in depreciated mar- $1,200 ran up repair casts
ters, Insofar as a man ket values and repairs—S> in eight years of $3.351.
is faithful in litle things. million more than it would ‘There are similar specifics.
sa he will be in great have cost in combined re- If a civilian businessman
things. pair and depreciation for attempted to claim deduc-
Among the civilians wha new vehicles. tions on a company car af
can understand the care Now add to that $5 mil- any such rate the Internal
and upkeep of automoiiles linn an additional $3 mil- Revenue people would
and trucks and the like is inn in increased costs of haul him in for a gning-
our highly active and ef- vehicles due to rising over.
ficient comptrolier general prices during the last If this improvidene i:
of the United States, Ja- three years. present in ail Ayr Pare
seph Camphell. And add to that total of — expenditures we are losing
Inarecent repart tothe $8 milien an additional $2 illions.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

