e e . e,e s we .
Popularity-Seeking Politicians
Force Business to Collect Taxé
; , BY RAYMOND MOLEY :

_ Afriend, William Feath- lected for some years Jections. The cost. of that,
er. of Cleveland, who has through businesses and all _ of course, is a business ex-
Jong since served Amer- were not levied at the pense which is deductible
ican business as a printer same time, it might be dif- but for which, in the long
and author of company ficult to determine.exactly run, other taxpayers must
house organs, makes anin- whether the politicians compensate.
teresting and arresting whomadethelawsplanned Some businesses are
suggestion of a reaSon it that way to play Santa quite properly giving con-
why, in political affairs Claus with money col- sumers notice of what is
and otherwise, the corpo- lected by business. going on by listing the
rations are not so pop- Perhaps it was not de- taxes separately from the
ular as they should be. liberate, But the political price of the goods. Com-

It is true that millions mind has been conditioned panies. tel! employees
of Americans are suffi- over the centuries to arts what has been deducted
ciently well disposed to- of exacting revenue in the from their take-home pay
ward American businesses most painless way possible and w hat the deductions
to invest their hundred and thus retaining all pos- are for. But unfortunately
billions of savings and sible goodwill for itself. consumers and employees
maintenance money in generally consider only
stock and products. * what they pay for what

But the habit of politi- Many of the taxes men- they buy and what, they
cians of lambasting busi- tioned'were levied back in 8¢t for their work.
ness, especially big busi- the 1930s and 1940s when The constitutionality of
ness, is still found an easy some very crafty people this sort of delegation of
means of getting votes. were at work planting em- the taxing power. has been.

Feather believes that harrassments in the path challenged without suc-
business has lost popular- of business while they cess. But judges too often
ity because government . were winning elections by find constitutional grounds
has made it a tax collec- blasting opponents as {or the tricks of the polit-
tor. friends of business. ical regimes which have

* The delegation of tax- invested them with their
ing power is very old. Un- ‘obes of office.

- “Business collects the der ancient regimes gov- *
employee's income tax, ernors were supposed to
the Social Security pay- exact taxes in the areas Hidden taxes of any

* ment and the gasoline, to- for which they were re- kind are wrong, and the
bacco, liquor. entertain- sponsible and made a lot government which con-
ment, sales and all other for themselves in the proc- trives them may well be
excise taxes. On top of ss. More modern nations, an instrument of tyranny.
this, business collects its like France, have farmed Adam Smith’s maxim that
own profits tax by a neces- Out taxes to grimy char- a tax should be plainly
sary :levy on consumers. acters with sticky hands. known to the taxpayer and
What it all adds up to is Present - day business, should be collected by the
that business takes and however, gets no percent- most direct means possible
Congress gives.” age for itself. In fact, it was published in the year

‘A great deal can be said must pay for and worry our Declaration of Inde-
for this suggestion. Since about the vast bookkeep- pendence was signed and

. these taxes have been col- ing essential to the col- is almost as important.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

