RAYMOND MOLEY:
————
Political Potential
f Senior Citi
Politicians in Congress noncontributing member
are quite aware of the of the community is an as.
growing number of senior set of first importance.”
citizens and. eye their .
votes with increasing con- _, We should consider the
cern, Some senators are distinction penveen ore
making a specialty of this 28@ @ sablity. Gove
concern and are readying ¢ment and puvate wel-
bills of all kinds for vari- fate can and should pro-
ous federal benefits. vide for the genuinely dis-
abled and the utterly in-
But while such poli- competent. But a greater
ticians are accurate in rec- and greater proportion of
ognizing the political po- those past 60 are not dis-
tential of these vorers, abled or incompetent,
they assume all too glibly . .
that the only coneere ofa , They are being forced
person over 65 is to get by labor contracts into
handouts from the govern- €a"ly retirement. Corpora-
ment. tion and other employers
insist upon. arbitrary re.
* tirement at an age limit
one which was created in the
The fact can easily be distant past. In some lines
. Proved that a major pro- such as advertising sales-
portion of those over 65 janship and newspaper-
neither are in need of nor jing it is getting harder
want support by the gov- and harder for a man over
ernment. A realistic politi- 59 to get a new job,
cal leader, such as a can- °
didate for President, *
would appeal to that ma- .
jority. They are more in- , It is true that a power-
terested in conserving {ul political case against
what they have than in inflation could be made by
getting something for Showing the purely mate.
nothing. rial interests of retired or
" semi-retired people. But
The stereotype of the there are values other
so-called problem of the than the material to sup-
aged, duly shown last port such ar. appeal.
re oe, the : oven, ot One of the most terrible
elderly, stupid-looking tolls taken is the destruc.
gents drowsing on a lon of the happiness and
bench and playing at usefulness of people who
horseshoes in the Florida are told by society that
sun, This is a quite false they are dispensable
representation of the 16 When, in fact, they are
million Americans over 63, Probably abler, wiser, and
more capable of productiv- .
A true portrayal could ity than ever before. The
be approached by a com- best appeal to senior citi-
pilation of the property in- zens must not be limited
terests of the 16 million, io saving their savings
together with a considera- but to helping them save
tion of values wasted in themselves.
our system which denies The voting potential of
useful work to so many the 16 miljion past 65 is,
who are perfectly able to allowing for some overlap-
make a great contribution ping, greater than that of
to the nation’s welfare. the farmers and almost as
great as that of union
* members. But they lack
As Dr. Edward L. Bortz organization. Perhaps they
told a congressional com- Will never be organized.
mittee last year, people *
not only are living long-
er, but are staying young But they could be sum-
longer. He said: “A curl- moned to political action
aus paradox faces society by real political leader-
today ... people are liv- ship. They have whet is
ing longer. At the same indispensable for political
time, outmoded practices action — time on their
on the part of industry, hands and a capacity for
labor, government are organization and persua-
forcing large groups out of sion. They have not only
useful occupations. their own votes but the
“This is taking place at capacity to mobilize oth- -
a time when through = ers.
vears of practice, study, Their interests as well
knowledge and experi- as the interests of the na-
ence, an individual is ca- tion in sound money and
pable of the best perform- solvency can be furthered
ance of his entire life... by their efforts. They are
Certainly the solvent old- a massive political poten-
er individual who is acon- tial, waiting for real lead-
tributing rather than a ership.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

