“RAYMOND MOLEY:
. .
Passing the Buck
«
on Aid to Schools

The first bit of wisdom Commissioner of Educa.
a novice learns in Wash- tion Brownell said in Oc-
ington is the ancient art of tober, 1954, that the “short-
legislative buck-passing. age” was 370,000 class.

‘The Senate or the House Toms. Sen. Lister Hill
will pass a bill known to Upped this three months
be doomed in the other ater to 600,000. President
house. Or both houses will Eisenhower in February
pass a bill to put the Pres- Said “over 300,000.” Then,
ident “on the spot” and @fter the utter unreliability
which, after a veto, can- of the “survey” was dem-
not be passed. onstrated, the embarrassed.

The legislators thus administration decided on
serve their political inter- we with lower figures
ests. They do not vote
their convictions, and they te
betray their trust to the The annual reports of
people who elected them. “shortages” from the

One of the worst exam- states show how unreliable
ples of this in recent years they are. Alabama, Sen,
was the Senate's passing Hill’s state, in 1954 re
of a bill for aid to school ported 19,750 rooms in use.
construction and teach- In 1956 it reported only
ers’ salaries. Everyone in 13,240 available. Its report
the Senate knew that the in 1959 showed 22,000 in
House would not accept use and a great reduction
such a bill and that, if it of the shortage.

did, a Presidential veto Projections of future
was certain. needs have proved equal-
* ly absurd in the light of

In fact, a House commit. Y€3TS- In 1955 the secre-
tee has already prepared tary of the Califor na
a bill for submission which Pear He testified
ae rite fon cchocl Sen that California would need
struction, House leaders “something over a billion
are‘unalterably ‘opposed to dollars” in school building
the Senate plan to supple- by 1960 and that the state
ment teachers’ salaries. could not afford that much.

_ But the records show

Fifty-four senators par- S
ticipated in this hypocrisy, hat between 1955 and
and 35 voted their convic- 1960 the state has spent
tions. $2.1 billion on publie

school construction. This

Both the school con- does not take into account
struction and the teachers’ the sums spent on private
salary aspects of the bill ong parochial schools.
can he proved to be wholly .
unnecessary. But since it Upon this sort of guess-
will be a long time before work the Senate has made
the issue is resolved in the the great gesture of an in-
House and, if anything is tet to spend $18 billion’
passed, a long time before i" two years. Such irre-
the President would act, 1 sponsible voting of tax.
shall refer here only to a Payers’ money deserves
few of the valid argu- Stronger words of con-
ments against generalized emnation than any fami-
federal aid for school con- Jy newspaper would print.
struction. *

Any ordinary mortal — One of the reasons why
Teading the debates on certain usually sound Re-
“classroom shortages” in publican senators voted
connection with the bill for the _ monstrous bill
passed by the Senate will and why Republican Jead-
end in a welter of confu- ers in the House feel that
sion. some bill for school con-

* struction must be passed is

Ever since President that Statements by’Secre.
Truman called for a tary Flemming and re
“school facilities survey” ports from his Us. Office
in 1951 this numbers game 0! Education have indicat.
has been going on with the ed a difference between
most fantastic variations. those reports and the

. President's new proposal.

The Truman survey vir-
tually asked school author- They have been embare
ities in the states to put rassed on the floor by cita-
their needs as high as pos- tions of these differences
sible, and they. certainly by the proponents of
responded with energy. By school aid. It would seem
the time the “survey” was to be time for the Presi-
available the Eisenhower dent to get some of his of-
administration was in of- ficial family into a White
fice and the confusion be- House classroom and
gan, establish some discipline.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

