RAYMOND MOLEY: . .
Emotional |

There is an old saying, _ In the hearings on the
attributed to former Sen, Humphrey proposal before
Ashurst of Arizona, that the Senate Foreign Rela-
when a senator changes tions Committee, Sen, Ful-
his mind he doesn't see the bright exercised a high
light, he feels the heat. hand, excluding many

Certainly that applies to ition and letters » e
the action of the Senate Tuctance to take me of.a
Foreign Relations Commit- jeter from former Sen.
tee when it dropped the Connally himself.. Some
Humphrey propcsal re- Ny

5 pretty flimsy arguments
pealing the veto power of 1.6 advanced in favor of
the United States over jee ‘ @
cases coming before the ‘?e Proposal.

Worid Court (the Connaily * :
amendment), . :
One was the naive sug-

In this instance, as in gestion that no real do-
that of the-Bricker amend- mestic issues were likely
ment, the President had to be brought before the
apparently yielded to the court in any event, This
State Department's peren- ignored the fact that the
nial yearning .0 Sacrifice various committees and
American sovereignty to commissions of the United
appease various and sun- Nations already have
dry foreign nations. drawn up all sorts of pro-

: * posals for meddling in the
domestic affairs of mem-

_ Itis remarkable that an _ ber countries. :

issue which presents such

rather complicated mat- Another more complex
ters of international law but equally naive’ argu-
and practice should have Ment has been that we al-
“ caught the public interest Teady have a sort of inter-
wf and fo wong ra el

This is written after two activities of the court. This
weeks in Arizona and in so-called common law is
Northern and Southern’ what is known as interfa-
California. I have talked — tionel law.
with many people about .
this issue out here, and _ Anyone who has studied
there has been tremendous ‘international law knows
concern about it. The fact that it is only a very
is that a very considerable Vague and tentative mass
opposition to the President of customs and practices,
and the Vice President and _ Whenever a nation
was gathering rapidly considers its vital interests
scons Republicans ee

If the matter had been the “father” of internation-
pressed, it might well have al law was Hugo Grotius,
become a major issue in whose great preachments
the campaign and have se- were written in fairly mod-
riously injured Nixon's ern times.
strength even in his home
state. *

The Connally amend- On the other hand, An-
ment is, like the Bricker — slo-American common law
amendment six years ago, —_ is centuries old. Its origins
a highly emotional issue. 99 far back into the mists
Women’ especially were of antiquity. It is the em-
genuinely aroused this hodiment of concepts of
year, as in 1954. right and equity which

+ have Boon accepted by the
overwhelming majority o:

It is not without signifi- those who live under it
cance that the opposition and by it,
of the President and Sec- 5. :
retary Dulles to the Brick- een perticial People have
er amendment and its de- e Notion that merely

. cote jf sing a law by a legisla-
feat by one_vote in the ie oS ity carri ‘th
Senate were followed by a it the owe y oF ane oon
diastroug Republican dev the Povey ct set cv
feat in the congressional which has only th ° a
elections in that year. Hiss 21 Y the accep

is . e of a mere majority
tory might well have re- can be enforced, We should
peated itself in 1960. have learned that ‘esson

It is not clear whether from our experience with
Sen. Hubert Humphrey in- prohibition. P te
troduced his controversial * o
resolution as a means of Any workable interna-
opening a fatal split in the tional common law will be
Republican Party or be- centuries in the making.
cause he is so imbued with Until then, the United
one-worldism. Butifitwas States should carefully
the former motive, it was guard its sovereign rights
infernally clever politics. in its internal affairs.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

