RAYMOND MOLEY:" ee
Hoffa's Merry Men «
dofta's Merry Men «

e 4
Are in a Legal Net. -

We shall now see unions, whicl, are. made |

whether James Hoffa and up of dues collected from, ;

his' merry men can again’ all members; 7" 3.

wriggle out of a legal net. yy the indictment in St.

Also, we shall see wheth-  youis it'is charge -

er the Department of Jus: +f, us ribs charged that

tice really intends ‘to en- rived tions were

force the provisions in:the Sti el ye stantially ‘or

Taft-Hartley legislation REY ts she the.. dues

dealing with Jabor unions’ pay! ne made by mem-

political: activities, ers” for the general
purposes” of the union. .

‘Two locals of the Team- ; san ae she Jang

sters, together with six of- wants section of jhe law

ficials of the locals of the ynited Auto! aa Wi i

Teamsters, are involved. utomobite. Work:

ers for something that

: * happened:in the 1954 cam-

Lone, paign. An-indictment was

. The, individuals named — secured which the federal

in a 22count indictment  district‘judge ir ‘igan

in St, Louis include Har- dismieet Michigs

old J. Gibbons, who has BS ace

been prominently in the cote

news becatise of his ex- ae +

tensive appearances be- ment tt rs oun vied 1 io

fore the McClellan com- indictment was restated
mittee: He is a vice presi- and M s vio Pronk
dent of the national union 4, deli cred jengt ir
as well as an officer of the F envi a jfensthy
local which generally di- Pinion concerning the
rects the operations of the 344 i of the legislation

Teamsters in St. Louis. its importance.

He is also administrative He said: “What is.-in-

assistant to Hoffa. volved here is the integ-

Another official named THY of the electoral, proc-
is Sidney Zagri, legisla SSS and. not less, the rev
tive counsel for the inter- ater ve tor the saecess.
national organization. ful functioning of that

The law allegedly vio- process. This case thus °
lated is Section 610 of Ti- raises issues not less than
tle 18 of the U.S. Code. basic to a democratic so-

n ws included in the ciety.”

‘aft- Hartley legislation.

In substance, the law is However, when the

an addition to legislation 48° ved " ho wr ihe :

passed in 1907 forbidding SS UCEP WAP ad dis

contributions to campaigns there the in letinent, .

for federal offices by cor- The Jucth a acqui ‘al

porations, The Taft-Hart- 4, e ustice saience

ley legislation put labor ‘ate Seeme to regan e.

organizations under the ‘Statute as a lead Jeter.

same prohibition. The facts in the Team-
* sters case seem much
more substantial than in

The alleged beneficiar- the UAW case. In that in-

jes of alleged contribu- stance, what was involved
tions are Sens. Hennings was payment by the union
and Morse, Reps. James for a radio broadcast on
Roosevelt of California, which a candidate ap-
Henry Reuss of Wiscon- peared. There was no di-
sin and two Missouri can- rect monetary contribution
didates for the House who involved. In the present
faited of election. These case the alleged facts go
contributions were made straight to the heart of
for primaries and elec- the matter.

tions in 1956, * '

Hennings, Morse, Roose- hog

velt and Reuss have stated The question is wheth-

since the indictment that & @ which member’s mon-

they presumed the con- © whi he contributes
tributions were from 28 dues for the general
funds voluntarily sub- | aap of the union can
seribed by members of be used to support politi-
the. unions. cal candidates. whom he
may or may not favor. In

It should be pointed out short, the alleged offense
that unions quite general- is the injustice of using

ly collect voluntary con- money contributed for an-

tributions from members other purpose to support a

for political purposes, But candidate repugnant to

the provisions of the law the contributor, and with:
prohibit contributions out his express permis-

from the general funds of sion, .

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

