A Few Reasonable Reservations
About Planning National Goal
, BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When a writer has many years ago by a great Research Committee on
doubts about the useful- ‘citizen of Indiana, Mere- Social Trends and its 1,600-
ness of a project, however dith Nicholson. He wrote page report. It was pub-
nobly designed, he should in his “Valley of Democ- lished toward the end of
state at the outset hisopin- racy" that democracy isa the Hoover administra-
ions upon which such res- quest,” not a perfectly al- tion, just as the Wriston
ervations are rooted. In tained state of affairs. Per- goals will be announced at
this case, the project isthe haps I might add that my the end of the Eisenhower
creation of a vast blueprint concept of the afterlife is administration.
on national goals by a dis- notaheavenof happy but 4 copy of the Hoover
tinguished group of cit- suspended animation but ieee . e ‘team
izens headed by Henry M. 2 continuation of the labor fO"MUULCeE TRUE €
Wriston, This was indicat. and striving that is our lott those of us wae Were
ed as a desirable project 0M earth. Hie it ee inis af 2
last year by the President, ane Ea vet ince at it,
but the members were not * tion, After i glance at ay
named until recently A f 7 _ we discarded it completely
y. _A professor who Te- ang, so far as 1 know, it
viewed my book at the oe ,
* time, not unfavorably, es- 125 Sudable experiment,
My doubt pressed his regret that I tnictration.
of ayational chavactee can had omitted “goalism.” anal bE
best be stated in what I The word, which is a part 1 feel. ill th Wriston re-
wrote ina book eight years Of the patter of modern so- t tive A le ly to giv
oe cal wlence,svays makes Pvt line on omy Be
on . my flesh creep. [ am in-
natcerty, permeates, the clined to associate it with who will consult it.
forces; the achievement is urswed ‘ram shost that *
ynpredictable, and therein and tore off the tail of his The usefuiness of the
tion. As long as ve i horse. . Hoover administration's
sure of the iB ‘direction in There are so many im- guide was limited to a
which we are going and ponderables in our life, so very important end. It
are sure of the ne tives Many. factors which are gave employment, in a
and principles that guide buried in the inscrutable ‘time of unemployment, to
ae Pam an S aticl er recesses of human nature, many a hard-pressed pro-
heiter life That shuld be 50 ™any virile minds at fessor and statistician. As
enough assurance for free work ina free society plan- a guide, it was wholly ig-
men” m ning in their own ways in- nored. People and compa-
. venting and adapting, so nies were too busy getting
a This, T should add, was many vagaries in public under way after the crush-
di eliberation after more taste. I surmise that the ing depression. Govern-
than 300 pages in which I automobile makers five ment was too busy getting
described the forces which Years ago were unable to its policies adopted and
had created American determine in advance how working. Politicians were
progress, the dangers that high to make the tailfins of too busy getting votes.
threatened it, and some of their cars and how soon In a free nation men
the principles in many they would have to go back cannot be contained in
fields of activity that lower posteriors. plans made by those whom
should guide us. . When the President sug- they follow. This might be
Perhaps I was influ. gested this search for noted by the elders who
enced by a memorable ob- goals, he noted as a prece- make up the Wriston com-
servation written a good dent President's Hoover's mission.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

