Rising Taxes Result in I d-
Fraud and Deteriorating Moralit
. BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Avrule of group behav- — Back in 1913 Congress those with an Ivy League
jor, which our | sociolo- imposed 2 modest tax of background and those
gists and psychologists vo on net incomes and a - i 5
inay be sure te valid, oon  . surtax, graduated from 1 with something Jess than
cerns taxation, As taxes to 6% on incomes exceed- 0 elementary school ed-
rise, there is a steep in- ing $20,000. ucation who qualify. The
crease of fraud. Evasion and avoidance dishonest are to be found
‘They may call this a be- commenced immediately, among frequenters of pool-
havioral reflex stimulated Serious complaints of tax rooms as well as among
by resentments and anxi- frauds and dishonest em- country club members.
eties. They may say that ployees brought about the
in its acute form its symp- transfer of six post of- x
toms are restlessness and fice inspectors to the bu- In fiscal 1959 the divi-
severe antagonism. To be eau to form anucleusfor  sion’s agents investigated
sure, it is an Indication of an intelligence division. more than 23,000 cases, re-
a serious deterioration of | Over the years, as the in- sulting in 1,640 prosecu-
society’s moral fiber. come tax rose, the num- tion recommendations,
* bers of agents needed to 1,187 indictments and 931
apprehend those who convictions. These covered
This unfailing rule has Would defraud increased the spectrum of American
been proven from the time until today the division life. A Bronx porter drew
of Pericles’ Athens, when has 1,500 trained technical three years on probation
tax liability was regarded employees, most of whom when he pleaded guilty to
as a mark of bondage and are either accountants, at- listing his pet dog. Duch-
men squirmed under the torneys, or both. : ess, as a dependent, “Dor-
tributes or fied phen. In * is, daughter.”"
our own time, free men
recognize the paying of Director Long says that aes experts were one
taxes as a citizen’s obliga- this isnot the entire story: V'¢t® thon of iE Ise and
tion and aré taught to co- “Actually, when we take pink M returns “Those
operate in their collection. into consideration the ‘'@™ hended Included la-
Yet in France, a democra- many Internal Revenue seas ete and corpora-
cy, 2 bookseller, Jean Pou- agents (audit division), ti re specutives vlees
jade, shook the republic revenue officers (collection ad ublic aielale doctors
four years ago with a vio- division), and representa- aa ba ers, little men and
lent anti-taxing political tives of the international by ay ’
movement. Both the Unit- operations division, both 8 ™&"-
ed States and Britain have here and abroad, we have Since morality is indivis-
serious difficulties with about 18,000 trained men ible, this decay of honesty
high taxes based'on in- who co-operate and co- in paying taxes will weak-
come. - ordinate their examina- en all decent dealings
This fact is reflected in tions.” among men. As Commis-
the need for steadily .-Who does the defraud- sioner Dana Latham point-
strengthened tax law en- ing? A minority, but a ed out, “Any time it be-
forcement. H. Allan Long, growing minority. Mem- comes ‘fair game’ to de-
who heads Internal Reve- bership in the club is open fraud the government of
nue’s intelligence division, and on the rise. There are taxes due, then our volun-
makes this clear in the those with Park Ave. tary . assessment system
current FBI Law Enforce- addresses and those with breaks down and as a Na-
ment Bulletin, less desirable addresses, tion we are in trouble.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

