Despite Soviet S America’
espite Soviet Success, Americas
Free Enterprise Still Proves Best

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

At a thousand festive bate will be in the hands The present and pros-
occasions in the months of those who know what pective figures of produc-
ahead, at feast four Demo- we laymen cannot know. _ tion capability are:
cratic candidat il - i - =
ide. dined uit pro- But in the field of econom- ty 4959 the United

igestive relaxation ic enterprise, which is also F
after th ae States produced 183 mil-
: r e coffee and opened to political debate lion kilowatts; Russia, an
liqueur. this year, I would like to Qotimated 59 ‘million in

The groaning of the ta- list a few facts about one 1995 we will produce 245
bles under the edibles of the bastions of an eco- niltion kilowatts. Russia's
with which they are load- mie system, electrical 545) if attained, 110 mil-
ad will be accompanied by Power. lion to 112 million kilo-

he groaning of the candi- ity o
dates about what dire nee nans he ¥ authority watts.
things will happen to us e will be questiones These advantages apply
all if the Republicans are by some as heing handi- | 111 three of the means of
returned to power next capped by self - interest. A lectricity:
November. Certainly we will be Prod aeine nd ricity:

* scoffed at by those who nergy ydro and atomic
hate what they designat :

The food, no doubt, will 4. nthe wv rt CB t In transmission lines,
be comestible, but the ora- power trust, pu Russia has 46,500 miles
tory should he plentifully _} shall name my authority, issia as ve Russia's
sprinkled with salt. and those who wish to With a pe comes

" ; . area, we have 240,000.

One of the four aspiring quarrel. wht s ais cancel .
senators is poor in pocket 0" MBAE. aclress than ~__2he per capita use com-
if not in spirit and an sen um ri arison is 4,481 for us,

to this mere reporter. P

articulate friend of all who 1 . 1,161 for the Soviet Union.
share his sad worldly es- x Because this is a measure

. Edward Vannard, man- of comparative standards
_ Three are worth, in aging director of the Edi- 9! living. the gap is very
money at least, some mil- son Electric Institute, re- ™eaningful.
lions of 1960 dollars. These ported recently about the *
millions were accumulated findings of a group of rep-
in the chapters of a na-  resentatives, of which he Since in the philosophy
tion's history in which the yas a member, who made and plans of socialism,
virtues of economic free- two visits, in 1958 and government ownership
dom were written indeli- 1959, to the Soviet Union and operation of electric
bly and with supporting to inspect its power facili- power production and dis-

. ties and its plants for the tribution are not only first

It requires a certain tol- manufacture of electrical in priority but easiest to
erance, mixed with a equipment. nationalize among all Pe
soothing sense of humor, soe . . dustrial activities, this
to hear them say, as they oon neit inspection trips comparison is especially
are saving, that embattled pan ered 16 000 nil notable.
and fanatical Marxism can 20d_covere! Russi mules T . h
in the near future diss 1% European Russia. the ‘here is no reason why
prove that luminous his- Urals and Siberia. Their we should be complacent.

conclusion is that, conced- ve must continue to pro-
tory. ing the success of the So- gress and grow, Not just to

I have neither the com- viet’s seven-year plan keep ahead of Russia but
petence nor the preten- ending in 1969, there is no for the benefit of higher
sions needed to argue the remote chance that Russia standards for all Ameri-
relative military might of can overtake the United cans. But the fears of poli-
the United States and the States in the foreseeable ticians are quite without
Soviet Union, That de- future. justification.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

