Mr. Willkie's
Global Goals
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The stimulating Mr. Willkie blames Mr.
Churchill for not defining what Mr. Will-
kie apparently has neither the leisure
nor wit to define himself. It's curious,
isn't it, that the very people who were
denouncing so-called "isolationists" for
lack of sympathy for England a year ago
are now engaging in the old American
game of twisting the lion's tail? That
seems to leave it up to those Americans
of whom Mr. Willkie disapproves to say
a word for Mr. Churchill. Thus the eternal
cycle of opinion begins to operate again.
In his address on Tuesday night, Mr.
Willkie apparently set himself to the task
of providing aims for the postwar world
of the United Nations. The pretension of
his effort, which includes forcing his point
of view upon his party and indirectly
compelling the United Nations to accept a
more specific program, invites analysis
of his speech and the alternative it proposes.
Yet, like many of Mr. Willkie's
sincere and outspoken pronouncements,
this speech is airy fare. "Gotta have" a
purpose he says in several hundred
words. And that purpose must be determined
while we are fighting.

TWO QUESTIONS

So far, so good. Then comes the first
of two questions for us to decide. How
shall we determine what we want to win?
Mr. Willkie's suggested answer is that
we must all freely talk about it. No one
will quarrel with that. But it would not
be amiss to ask who is stopping the talk?
Surely no one has prevented Mr. Willkie
from talking.
Then comes Mr. Willkie's second question.
How shall we prepare for peace?
By working together, he says—which is
fine, too. But suddenly, at this point, he
considers not working together on post-
war problems, but working together on
how-to-win-the-war problems.
Specifically, he continues, we should
have collaboration of the United States,
England, Russia, China, et al. The fact
is that such collaboration already exists.
We have Stalin's word for it that he is
satisfied. And the Chinese are amply and
energetically represented in Washington
and London.

MENTAL JUNGLE

We are told that we must have plans
and that we must work together. Agreed.
But when we silently ask how about the
plans, Mr. Willkie begins to talk about
goals.
Well, what goals? Here Mr. Willkie's
discourse goes off into a trackless mental
jungle. Take the Atlantic Charter, he says.
The people of the world must forge the
four freedoms. So Mr. Willkie would leave
it to the people of the world. They must
forge. Beyond that, says he, there must
be more than political internationalism.
We must have economic internationalism.
One case is presented—Malaya—which,
says Mr. Willkie, must be internationally
governed. Every nation is to get rubber
there, and the proceeds are to go to the
Malayans. But Mr. Willkie does not say
what's to be done if the big buying nations
should decide to make their rubber
at home, or if, as is likely, Brazil goes
into the market.

FREE TRADE

Here abruptly appears another definition
of the goal—absolutely free trade. The
nations must not only buy everywhere;
they must sell everywhere. We must find
the method by which the trade barriers
hampering the flow of goods are removed.
To those who suggest that free trade will
lower American standards of living, Mr.
Willkie says that the reverse will be true.
Whereupon he leaps into the hopeless
mist of a glittering generality: "To
raise the standard of living of any man
anywhere in the world is to raise the
standard of living by some slight degree
of every man everywhere in the world."
This will be news to Messrs. William
Green, Philip Murray, the cattlemen of
the West and the farmers of the Middle
West. But maybe they will understand.
At any rate, that's the program. And
wearily the orator concludes that "bay-
onets and guns are feeble compared with
the power of ideas." But until we have
better ideas than these, we had better
keep our bayonets and guns.
Mr. Churchill might well say that the
British Empire, despite its mistakes, did
keep things together, while Mr. Willkie's
generalities suggest no such cohesive force
or even the plausible semblance of it. We
can hardly ask for the liquidation of
reality when we have no substitute but
the ancient banalities of oratory. We cannot
make global goals out of global talk.

Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.