Senator Maloney's proposal for a joint
Congressional committee on war admin-
istration shows that the election is already
having an effect upon the legislative side
of government. It bespeaks a new mood
of vigorous independence.
The Maloney proposal will, of course,
be unpopular with the administration; but
the arguments for it, or something like it,
are powerful. They are apt to win strong
public support—so strong, in fact, that
the President will do well to decide quick-
ly whether he will take such a proposal
from the old Congress, or wait until the
new one forces it upon him. In January
the membership of a joint Congressional
committee on the administration of the
war might be even more independent and
forceful than it would be now.
It is silly to talk about such a commit-
tee’s taking any of its real power from the
executive. No one contemplates its inter-
ference in military decisions; but unless
we are to have a dictatorship, Congress
must have the power of inspection and
criticism. Its committees do not perform
executive duties. They hold hearings, is-
sue reports, originate legislation and in-
form the public. The existence of Con-
gressional committees is based on the
simple human fact that no man, even a
Commander-in-Chief, is good enough to
judge his own actions or to admit his own
mistakes.
ARGUMENT ANTICIPATED
Doubtless administration Congressmen
will tearfully say that a joint Congres-
sional committee on war administration will
lose lives and prolong the war. That is
the stock argument now against any in-
dependent action of Congress. It is wear-
ing pretty threadbare. The fact is that
there are now operating many Congres-
sional committees and subcommittees
whose activities touch on one or another
aspect of the conduct of the war. They
haven’t lengthened the war yet. They
have been as trustworthy in keeping mili-
tary secrets as has the administration.
Some of these committees, notably the
Truman committee and the Gillette sub-
committee, have spurred lagging admin-
istrators to better work. But in general,
committee efforts have been diffuse, in
many cases conflicting and wasteful. With
separate House and Senate committees
probing into war production and numer-
ous separate committees investigating the
Army, Navy, merchant marine and food
production, the output has been a welter
of confusion.
MUCH TIME LOST
Moreover, key administration officials
have lost endless hours going over the
same ground, oftentimes with different
committees. A joint Congressional com-
mittee whose work was well organized
could certainly eliminate existing conflicts
and repetition.
Opponents of such a joint committee
are sure to have much to say about a
similar committee created during the Civil
War. The Civil War committee was formed
after the North had suffered some serious
defeats, had not yet shown the capacity
to pull itself together, and had got itself
so snagged in bureaucratic incompetence
that the outlook was dark indeed. The Con-
gressional committee on the conduct of
the war was created through the efforts
of a number of really outstanding Sena-
tors, including Zachariah Chandler and
Benjamin F. Wade. Historians are divided
in their estimates of the value of the
committee. But the fact is that historians
who condemn it also condemn the press
of the time and every other contemporary
institution which offered criticism of the
war administration. In any case, its experi-
ence is no guide to present needs.
PEOPLE WANT FACTS
A large amount of the opposition that
revealed itself in this election came from
citizens who felt that despite the work
of existing Congressional committees they
were not being told enough about the
conduct of the war. Obviously they were
not satisfied with the information provided
by the administrative branch of govern-
ment either. They had seen millions
poured into silly publicity agencies like
the O.F.F. and had got back chiefly out-
dated reports, gratuitous lecturing and ir-
relevant advice. They were offended at
the impertinence of bureaucrats prating
about morale building and the like.
They wanted comprehensive, coherent
information. They wanted competent criti-
cism of people who were making mistakes.
It is so clear that this was a big factor
behind the election results that Congress
now has a substantial mandate to provide
public information on the war if it has
the intelligence to do it. The job can be
done best by a single joint committee on
all world problems.
(Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.