Temporizing
With an Enemy
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The 12 months since Pearl Harbor teach
us that it may be harder to beat inflation
than to liquidate the Axis—long after
our foreign enemies have gone under we
may still be waging war on that front.
For while we started to fight earnestly
on the sea and land as soon as we were
attacked, we temporized shamefully from
the first with the deadly enemy of infla-
tion.
It was shortly before Pearl Harbor that
Congress passed its price control bill.
That was approximately five months after
the President had asked for it. The bill
satisfied no one, not even Leon Hender-
son. The wonder is that anything effec-
tive could come from it.
We entered the war paying about one-
third of our national expenditures from
taxes. After a year's "progress" we are
still raising only about a third of the
total requirement. Thus the basic disease
of mounting debt has gone on,
STILL DIGGING
Meanwhile, we have, through Mr. Hen-
derson and others, been treating some
symptoms of inflation with much energy.
Last week Mr. Henderson in what he
called his "report from one of the straw
bosses" before the National Association
of Manufacturers was able to state that
over the year his ceilings had held fairly
well. But, he warned, the "bottom of the
barrel" of public patience had not been
reached. He assured his audience that
he is still digging toward that bottom.
We now have what is theoretically a
complete apparatus for symptom control.
The question that troubles people is
whether, in the end, the government will
be clever, versatile and forceful enough
to operate it. Mr. Henderson frankly
confesses his doubts by suggesting that
prices will rise and red tape will increase
as large chunks of his authority are given
to administrators of such items as
rubber and oil.
On the financial side we have been accomplishing
little or nothing in reducing
the gap between rising incomes and diminishing
goods though we have for
the time being stopped the rapid rise of
incomes. In the price area we have at
last achieved a stability but at the risk
of having to extend our controls endlessly.
The battle with inflation might be
said, then, to have reached a stalemate,
possibly to be compared with our military
position of approximately last October.
JUST BE DONE OVER
Both in raising revenue on the one
hand and in trying to prevent inflation
as the result of our not raising enough
revenue on the other we have barely kept
up with our inadequate position at the
start. We are pumping much harder, but
the level of the inflationary water is as
high as it was. The greater part of the
work must all be done over again next
year.
Seven months of effort to construct a
revenue act this year produced one
which is expected to raise about $24,-
000,000,000 of the $75,000,000,000 we shall
probably spend. We emerge as the major
nation which still raises the smallest proportion
of its war expenditures by taxation.
No doubt the root of our troubles lies
in the determination of the administration
and Congress not to dip too heavily into
the incomes which have shown the greatest
increase. Our national income which
was $95,000,000,000 last year will reach
an estimated $134,000,000,000 next year.
Seventy per cent of the impressive lift
in national income is estimated to consist
of higher payments to wage earners.
The largest item of the remaining 30 per
cent is payments to farmers. The "inflation
gap" between purchasing power and
purchasable goods has been created here
for the most part, and it is here that the
smallest amount of the gap has been
closed by taxation. The gap remains at
$10,000,000,000—just about where it was
a year ago.
That is the picture at the end of a year
of war. It is the picture that the new
Congress must face as it takes up again
the weary burden of taxes. The most
hopeful sign is the report that inside
Congress there will be little disposition
to follow Treasury guidance. This means
that perhaps the disease will be attacked
while Mr. Henderson and his associated
czars continue to fuss with the symptoms.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.