The Best Test
of the Election
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The size of Tuesday's overturn is not
easy to appraise in figures, either of vote
majorities or of overturns in Congress.
That is because in certain States there
were few Democrats left to be defeated.
Kansas, Iowa and Nebraska combined
sent only five Democrats to the present
House. In the new Congress these five
will be gone. On the basis of incomplete
returns, 12 States will have solid Republican
House delegations. An old block of
districts running through Central Ohio
west to Colorado, which traditionally was
as solid Republican as the South was
Democratic, has gone back to its old moor-
ings. Over a period of 60 years the balance
between that Republican belt and the
solid South was the most important stabilizing
force in the political life of the
nation. Mr. Roosevelt broke that balance.
Now it has been restored.
The fact, moreover, that 22 States now
have Republican Governors as against 25
with Democratic Governors take on new
significance when the population of these
States is considered. About 75,000,000 people
live in States which will have Republican
Governors next year. Some 52,000,000
people will live in States with Democratic
Governors. Wisconsin, with 3,000,000, will
have a Progressive Governor.
THE BEST TEST
In spite of all sorts of newfangled ways
of testing public opinion, there still remains
only one sound way to judge it.
That is to look at the people that voters
prefer and at the people that voters reject.
This is not scientific, but it is the
best test we have. It is what in the
motion-picture industry is called the box-
office test. It is the test of selling manufactured
products, music, books, speeches
and radio programs. The people express
their sentiments and mood in what they
choose.
A Dewey voter two months ago asked
this writer, among others, what sort of
an appeal would meet the public mood
this year. This was the answer: "Look over
the list of successful candidates for Governor
of New York since 1870 and ask
yourself which one would get the most
votes. My guess is that Grover Cleveland
would." Why? Because the people want
leaders who can't be pushed around, who
think for themselves, who are blunt and
honest and who regard public office as a
public trust. They want in charge of public
affairs the same kind of men whom
they would choose as prospective executors
of their estates.
LOOK AT THE MEN!
Let us apply this to the people in the
news this week, beginning with California.
Earl Warren, a steady, quiet man.
Andrew Schoeppel of Kansas, a conservative
lawyer from a small city. Griswold
of Nebraska, who received three times as
many votes as his opponent, the brother
of William Jennings Bryan. Governor
Wilson, an Iowa Coolidge, elected over
the affable Senator Herring. Bricker of
Ohio, who saves money for the State.
Homer Ferguson in Michigan and Dewey
in New York, scourges of malefactors.
Baldwin of Connecticut and Saltonstall
of Massachusetts. Hawkes of New Jersey,
former head of the United States Chamber
of Commerce. There is nothing visionary
about those people.
Then glance at some outstanding casualties.
Norris of Nebraska, idol of extreme
New Dealers, Josh Lee of Oklahoma,
Smathers of New Jersey, Olson of California.
Even the jolly Governor Heil was
apparently not serious enough for Wisconsin,
in spite of his business experience.
It is a bad November for extremists and
prophets of "new days."
The American people are a pretty solid
lot. They have reminded the world that
they believe in constitutional government,
in the two-party system, in economic government,
in free criticism and a free press.
They have also reminded the "morale
builders" in Washington that they don't
want to be told what to think and how
to feel. They will take care of their own
morale, thank you.
Copyright, 1936, by the Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.