No Party Monopoly in Foreign Policy
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Before the votes are cast next Tuesday,
another phony issue deserves a thorough
airing. This column has already discussed
the silliness of the argument which would
have voters support New Deal candidates
on the ground that the administration is
the discoverer and sole champion of "hu-
maneness" and reform in government.
Equally fatuous are the claims that would
put discussions of foreign affairs on a
partisan basis,
The current edition of that line of
bunkum runs something like this: The
election of Republican candidates will be
good news for Hitler and Hirohito, be-
cause the enlightened foreign policy which
now makes it possible for the freedom-
loving nations to defy aggression is the
creation of the New Deal. The Republican
party, the line continues, never had such
a world outlook. To criticize the admin-
istration or any of its supporters, then,
is to weaken us in the eyes of the world,
impair our war effort and even threaten
us with losing the peace, because only
the New Deal has had experience in
world affairs.
A DIFFERENT LINE
This line differs from what was urged
by New Dealers six months ago. They
intended then to make the issue the "iso-
lationism" of some Republicans before
Pearl Harbor. This argument collapsed.
First, it could be shown that the Pres-
ident and many of his followers repeatedly
affirmed their belief, as late as 1941, that
we could stay out of the war. Second,
the voters had not forgotten that they
were themselves sharply divided before
Dec. 7 on the war issue. Third, what a
man said or thought in 1940 or 1941 about
our participation in the war became, in
the face of current urgencies, of constant-
ly diminishing interest to the voters.
In any case, the primaries all over the
country destroyed the tactic of the pre-
Pearl Harbor appeal. Voters refused to
accept it. By and large, both Democrats
and Republicans who had opposed steps
toward war were nominated without dif-
ficulty. It even looked as if Mr. Roose-
velt's and Mr. Willkie's interference in
the primaries was so deeply resented in
some cases that those whom they opposed
got more votes than they might have
otherwise. So the argument about pleas-
ing Hitler has been developed, and this
revised version of the "isolationist" issue
is now being proclaimed from platforms
all over the country.
Whatever Hitler's propagandists may
think or say—and what American cares
anyway?—it must be evident that a swing
toward the Republican party would be a
sign that the voters want a more, rather
than a less, vigorous and efficient prose-
cution of the war. If the enemy should
get any other impression, it would be
in part because New Deal orators have
broadcast a false picture of Republican
intentions. In that sense, upon them and
not upon the Republicans would rest
the responsibility for pleasing Hitler.
UNITED FOR WAR
If the administration is eager to convey
to foreign nations the impression that
both parties are united behind the war—
as they are—it might take direct action
toward that end. For one thing, it might
put more of the opposition leaders in
positions of responsibility. The talents
of Hoover, Landon and dozens of others
are unused. Mr. Willkie at a desk in Wash-
ington would be better evidence of unity
than Mr. Willkie on a tour.
So far as the claim of a New Deal
monopoly on enlightenment in foreign
policy is concerned, the facts themselves
disprove it. There has been a continuity
of foreign policy in our history which
makes it impossible to sustain that thesis.
Since 1900, foreign policy has been an
issue only once. It is no exaggeration to
say that two Republicans, Hughes and
Hoover, more powerfully influenced the
direction of the Hull-Roosevelt policies
than any Democrat. Nothing more dra-
matically demonstrated the continuity of
American foreign policy than the fact
that in 1932, when he was running for
the Presidency, Mr. Roosevelt did not
even discuss it because, in general, he
agreed with that of the incumbent ad-
ministration.
LOOK AT THE RECORD
The Japanese problem might have been
solved in 1931 if the Hoover administra-
tion's policy, publicly accepted by Mr.
Roosevelt, had prevailed. Europe might
have been stabilized if the London Eco-
nomic Conference, for whose calling
Hoover's administration was largely re-
sponsible, had not been blasted by Mr.
Roosevelt. The record of 30 years—years
in which Elihu Root, for instance, coined
the phrase "good neighbor," and William
H. Taft began the movement for a league
which was carried on by President Wil-
son—shows that neither party can be
charged with either "isolationism" or "in-
terventionism"—whatever these words
may mean.
In their hearts the leaders of the Roose-
velt administration know that Foreign
policy is a national development, not a
party creation. To present it as a partisan
issue is wholly unjust. It flies in the face
of history. The voters should reject it
and repudiate those who are raising it
now.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.