So-called "experts" on public opinion
are quarreling these days about the probable
effect of good news on the war effort.
There are those who mournfully say that
optimism will slow people down. Others
insist that more vim and vigor will go
into every man's effort if he believes that
the war may, after all, be a relatively
short one. It looks now as if the odds
are on the latter.
The prospect of a long war so persistently
presented by some of our morale experts
seriously saps our energies. The prospect
of a short, fast, hard war, on the other
hand, may well contribute to making it a
short war.
Cloud Wampler, Syracuse industrialist, is
one of those to hold this view. He is deeply
concerned about the why-rush-now-it's-going-
to-be-a-long-war-anyway state of mind that
he finds everywhere in industry, from top
to bottom. Shortages of man power and
limitations on work hours would be less
onerous, he believes, if everyone tried
harder where he works and when he works.
The failure to put in the last ounce of
energy is a matter of national psychology,
he thinks. National optimism will quicken
our energies and produce more goods.
NATURAL REACTION
That makes a lot of sense. We heard much
about a long war in the dark months after
Dec. 7. Curiously, the talk first came largely
from those visionary men and women whose
primary concern was preserving and adding
to our "social gains." Those were the days
when there seemed to be time to train teachers
of dancing to teach children to dance in air-raid
shelters, the days when we were told there
was time—and money—for everything. But
it soon became apparent that the longer the
war people envisaged, the less they would
want to disturb the normal course of their
living.
A man running a 100-yard race covers more
ground in a few seconds than a man running
a mile. The early rounds of a 15-round prize
fight are slower than those of an eight-round
fight. All human expenditure of energy depends
upon the prospective time during which the
energy must be expended. So long as the
people of this country are mentally conditioned
to a very long war, they will produce less
than they are capable of producing.
DEFEATISM FADES
The defeatism that speculated on a war of
seemingly endless length is now being dissipated
by the news on the bright side. The proof of
battle has confirmed our faith in our resources
and our weapons. The Russian counteroffensive
starts almost a month earlier than it did a year
ago. And it starts after Russia has again taken
everything that the Nazis could offer.
Rommel, a threat like that of Hannibal 21
centuries back, is meeting the same fate in
the same part of Africa. Our Navy has beaten
the Japanese in three decisive battles. Italy is
being battered by air. The evidence that Germany
is suffering grievously grows stronger every
day. Germany stood four winters before. The
fourth winter of this war is now upon her.
So, for the first time good news is following
good news. While a few months ago it seemed
that the war was lengthening two months with
every month that passed, we now have the future
foreshortened as we breast our way into it.
THE PROOF
Good reporters say that officialdom in Washington
believes now that Germany can be licked in a
year, Japan in two. That optimism is reflecting
itself in places where hard money backs opinion.
The prices of foreign bonds show it. Australian,
Danish and even Polish and Norwegian bonds
are far above their lows. There are serious
deterrents to a full reflection of good news in
the markets, of course, but, over all, the figures
indicate an undeniable improvement of spirits.
The fact that optimism stimulates effort is pretty
obvious.
The Moscow dispatches of Tuesday tell us that
in one large factory production was increased 20
per cent in the first shift after the good news
came out. Something like that may well happen
here. We know we can take disappointments.
The past year has proved that.
Now that Roosevelt, Churchill and Smuts tell us
that we have turned the corner, the future may
well become, within reason, what we want it to be.
Optimism is worth a trial, anyhow.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.