Czars and Gripes
in Washington
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Whenever the President buttons up an
administrative situation, the seams at the
back and the sides begin to pull wide
open. Four new czars have appeared
within a fortnight. Superficially, that's
how it should be done—one man, not a
board—for each administrative task. With
the appointment of Wickard, Lehman,
Wilson and McNutt loud hosannas go
up. At last we are getting somewhere.
Then unmistakable sounds of ripping
seams are heard.
Take, for example, the Wickard and
Lehman appointments. Brushing aside
the qualifications of Messrs. Wickard and
Lehman for the tasks of food administration,
it is a serious error at the outset
to believe that foreign food relief and
domestic food control should be or can be
separated. The key to Mr. Hoover's success
in the first World War was his responsibility
for both food production at
home and food distribution abroad. The
separation of those jobs now simply means
that the President will find a few more
portfolios piled on the already groaning
White House desk and will have to
straighten out innumerable points of conflict
which will come up between Wickard
and Lehman.
IT'S ALL MIXED UP
Yet this does not even begin to suggest
the complexity of the muddle of food administration.
Let's pursue Mr. Lehman's
situation a bit further. Is Mr. Lehman
really the head of foreign food relief?
Under lease-lend, which is either Mr. Hopkins
or Mr. Stettinius—precisely which is
not altogether clear—there has been set
up a sort of food and social service for
North Africa.
But ex-Governor Lehman said when appointed
that his first job would be to get
help to the inhabitants of North Africa.
Meantime, if Mr. Lehman cares to forget
about lease-lend, he cannot quite so easily
ignore the fact that the State Department
has borrowed Mr. Wickard's undersecretary,
Mr. Paul Appleby, to serve under
Mr. Hull as head of the Office of Foreign
Territories.
No one who knows Mr. Hull will doubt
that in such a situation he will hold
tightly to authority over food as well as
everything else excepting perhaps the
Army and Navy in North Africa.
One way or another, Mr. Lehman will
ultimately be working for Mr. Hull, with
Mr. Wickard somewhere in the wings.
The White House announced that Mr.
Lehman is "associated with the Department
of State as director of foreign relief
and rehabilitation operations." But people
under this administration don't just get
"associated" with the State Department.
They either work for it or they get out.
George Peck years ago, and more recently
Col. Donovan and Milo Perkins of Mr.
Wallace's B. E. W., all learned that. Mr.
Lehman and Mr. Wickard will learn it.
Unfortunately, the President will never
learn it. Or if, perchance, he has known
it all along, he has had the time of his
life seeing others learn it.
MAYBE EVEN DARLAN
The apparent victory of Mr. Nelson in
recapturing from Gen. Somervell authority
over production is another example
of the buttoning-ripping process. The announcement
that Charles E. Wilson, a
civilian, would have charge of expediting
and scheduling aircraft, looked for a happy
moment like the birth of a czar. But a
careful reading of the Washington columns
into which the tears of certain high
Army officers are conveniently and frequently
dropped makes one pause. The
Army suddenly discovers that it is full
of civilians, in fact, that it is being run
by civilians Stimson and Patterson. And
we are told the chief trouble with plane
production is that allocations are wrong,
and Nelson has always had that control
of allocations. So Mr. Nelson may find
that all he lacks is a military commission
and a uniform.
We are winning the war anyhow. But
it will take a few years to untangle the
glorious, successful and utterly confused
organization with which it was won. Maybe
the best way out of the Darlan episode
would be to bring the admiral to Washington
and make him czar of something.
He would be lost in the shuffle.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.