Let's Realize the Danger Now
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The appointment of Governor Lehman
rather than former President Hoover as
Director of Foreign Relief and Rehabilita
tion should be blunt warning of a danger
that lies in the not too distant future.
The danger is that we may lose all we
fight to attain if the administration in
sists upon using, in making the peace
that will follow the war, only people
favored by one faction of one party.
This is not to suggest for a moment
that Governor Lehman is not a good man.
But he is not the best man for this job.
And his choice reinforces the impression
that only ardent supporters of the Pres-
ident's domestic policies will be employed
in postwar enterprises.
An attempt to do that in 1919 resulted
in a take-it-or-leave-it peace which a right-
fully indignant Senate and a weary elec-
torate rejected. If, as has been said over
and over, ad nauseam, in the past, Amer-
ica shirked her responsibilities after the
last war, she did so because Wilson would
brook no interference with his plans and
would ask precious little outside advice
in making them. Americans will take a
lot; but they don't want to be told how
to take it.
TIME FOR PLAIN TALK
Every fair and responsible deduction
from the news points to the defeat of Ger-
many in 1943 or 1944. Probably if some
poll taker should compile a million sam-
ple guesses from Americans, the largest
number would put it late in 1943. That
is a year off, and it is not too soon to be
getting ready. Certainly it is time for some
plain talking about avoiding the danger-
ous course which lost us the fruits of 1918.
Mr. Roosevelt, like Mr. Wilson before
him, is a proud and imperious man. Like
Mr. Wilson, he selected a none-too-compe-
tent Cabinet. Like Mr. Wilson, he prefers
men around him with whom he can work
very easily. That prescription calls for
plenty of sugar and not much iron. Some
strong men like to work that way. For
some purpose it may be a good way to
get things done. But it is not the way to
make and enforce foreign policy in a
democracy.
In the first place, a considerable part
of the President's extraordinary power
over domestic affairs ceases when an
armistice is made. In the second place, the
acquiescence of a very large majority of
the people will be needed to permit our
government to assume broad international
responsibilities beyond the waging of war
itself.
In the third place, a fairly workable
relationship between the two parties will
be necessary.
Finally, the enlistment of Congress as
well as the executive department and its
subordinate agencies is going to be es-
sential to the making of a peace settle-
ment. For the Constitution still lives. It
calls for joint control of treaty making.
In the approach toward war, a President
can get his country into situations where
Senatorial acquiescence is almost auto-
matic. But that is not true in the making
of peace arrangements.
PRESIDENT'S INSISTENCE
It is perfectly clear that in preparations
for defense and in the conduct of this war
the President has insisted, on the non-
military side at least, upon the selection
of people whose ideas and general philoso-
phy are not unlike his own. Congress has
been told rather than asked about things.
The same line is unfortunately being fol-
lowed in postwar planning.
There are, as is well known, some 30
or 40 government agencies working on
plans for the coming peace. But most of
these are executive establishments.
The new Congress can approach this
job of postwar planning with a direct
voters' mandate. It can and should au-
thorize committees in each house, com-
posed of able men of the two parties, to
hear testimony on postwar plans, to in-
vestigate the work of the multitude of
planning agencies now supported by tax
money, to consult and advise with the
government departments concerned, and
to bring in opinion from business and pro-
fessional organizations outside the gov-
ernment.
This is not an executive war: it is
everybody's war. It must be everybody's
peace.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.