For a Better
War Effort
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In a short speech on Thursday of this
week to the National Association of Manu-
facturers, Herbert Hoover played the role
of an opposition leader in the great tra-
dition. Without partisan criticism-with-
out direct criticism of any description,
for that matter-he managed to bare
weaknesses in the civilian command in
Washington at the same time that he
suggested concrete improvements. By lay-
ing down 12 helpful principles of organ-
ization, Mr. Hoover fulfilled the obliga-
tion of a statesman. By the suggestion
that his hearers check his 12 principles
with what they knew of Washington, he
performed the function of critic.
The 12 principles can be simply sum-
marized. Civilian activities should be di-
rected by civilians, Mr. Hoover says. They
should be directed by single-headed de-
partments, and not by committees. There
should be very few divisions of activity.
All heads should be members of a war
council. The United States alone is op-
erating without such a council.
CONTROL AT THE SOURCE
On the all-important question of in-
flation control Mr. Hoover disagrees with
the Baruch idea which was belatedly and
incompletely adopted. Mr. Hoover would
control prices by going back to the source
of production. Then, he believes, by put-
ting a celling on a few raw materials
and by a simple check on processing,
the essentials in the cost of living could
be held down. He would not attempt to
control prices on nonessentials and lux-
uries.
All mechanisms of price-and-distribu-
tion control should be focused toward in-
creased production, Mr. Hoover continues.
No labor restrictions should be tolerated
beyond those that safeguard health. Gov-
ernment purchases, he says, should not
be made in war on the basis of the nor-
mal bid-and-contract system but through
a system of allocations. Representatives
in an advisory war board should be
chosen by the industries themselves. So-
cial reform must wait until the war is
won. And finally, says Mr. Hoover, all
war activities must be organized on the
principle that they will end with the
coming of peace.
A simple recital of these principles,
most of which proved themselves in the
first World War, throws into vivid re-
lief the wastefulness and incompetence of
the civilian command's performance in
the year just ending. It's too late now
for some of Mr. Hoover's principles. But
there is still time for others. The party
of which Mr. Hoover is a member will
have sufficient power in the new Con-
gress to compel action. It will do that
if the leadership of Congress is resource-
ful enough to find the means of forcing
the executive to mend its ways.
13TH PRINCIPLE
This brings us to another principle-
a 13th, if you will-which Mr. Hoover
did not state. That principle is the or-
ganization of a single joint Congres-
sional committee, with equal representa-
tion of the parties, to exercise the power of in-
vestigation and criticism over the war
effort. There has been a movement in
Congress for such a committee. Senator
Maloney has already introduced a resolu-
tion to provide for one. The Republican
minority can easily attract enough Demo-
cratic votes to insure the creation of
the kind of well organized, adequately as-
sisted committee Senator Maloney's pro-
posed resolution would provide. That
should be one of its first jobs.
One reason the administration has been
able to escape so long the plain lessons
of its own mistakes is that the Congres-
sional side of government has scattered
its critical facilities into so many commit-
tees and in so many directions that it
has achieved no real influence over the
executive. Another reason is that the
titular leader of the opposition, Mr. Will-
kie, has not mobilized the party of op-
position as he promised to do two years
ago.
Mr. Hoover has now provided the blue-
prints. It remains for Congress, and es-
pecially the new Republican minority in
Congress, to use these principles as a
guide to action.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.