W.L.B. Head
Sees a Ghost
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
William H. Davis, head of the all-
powerful National War Labor Board, is
not in a position where fear should haunt
him. But clearly it does. He is a man
afraid of a shadow. Not his own shadow,
but the shadow of the compulsion which
government in hands other than his or
like-minded colleagues may exercise over
labor. So as November ends with its turn-
ing of domestic political tides and the
fortunes of foreign war he quakes a bit
in public.
Last week at the Unity for Victory
banquet of the American Arbitration As-
sociation, the chivalry of the New Deal
and of organized labor assembled to strike
the lyre of praise a lusty strum in honor
of Mr. Davis.
A medal for distinguished service in
industrial relations was awarded. The
note of apprehension in Mr. Davis' re-
sponse to the lush sentiments of the
speakers was unmistakable. His promise
that his board would relinquish its great
powers when the war ends obviously
grew out of the deep conviction that labor
and government have come to a critical
point in their alliance.
OLD DAYS ARE GONE
The speech made clear what many a
rash union has now learned to its sor-
row. The old days of free and easy bar-
gaining are gone. "Under the present
war conditions," said Mr. Davis, "the
two major issues—wages and union status
—are put within a new framework and
to that degree there is less room for
controversy about them. They tend to
retire into the background."
Indeed they do! They are frozen. For
the substance of bargaining about wages
and union status now rests with the
N.L.W.B., which decides, rather than bar-
gains.
Mr. Davis did his best to assure union
leaders who are worried—and with rea-
son—about their own future function in
these strange circumstances. But he ap-
parently forgot that the ice which now
so neatly encases the traditional freedom
of labor and the traditional strategy of
labor leaders is not all war ice. It has
been gathering for years—ever since the
unions abandoned the sound principle of
no alliance with government. It was a
cold day for labor when it invited govern-
ment, in the pretty phrase of John L.
Lewis, "to sup at labor's table."
FAULTY JUDGMENT
The history of the Wagner Act has
long since suggested the faulty judg-
ment of those friends of organized labor
who believed in letting government do
the work that properly belonged to the
unions.
Dear old Dr. Wagner wanted
to
place labor in a nice stockade of govern-
ment protection. Collective bargaining
was guaranteed under a one-sided law.
Then zealous administrators of the
N.L.R.B. went further. They decided to
help labor organize. This seemed tempo-
rarily good for the unions. Memberships
grew and dues poured in. But with every
assumption of new authority by the gov-
ernment in the labor field, the jobs of
union leaders were more circumscribed.
The dependence of their members upon
them grew less important. The whole
basis of their security was progressively
shaken.
Now two events in swift succession
have threatened to make labor's protec-
tive stockade a prison. First came the
supreme necessities of war. Then came
the political shift of this autumn. Sud-
denly, the awful thought comes over
union labor leaders that government, to
which they so gayly gave vast orders, may
not be as sympathetic in the future as
it has been in the past.
WHAT MR. DAVIS SAYS
Mr. Davis' remarks not only display a
deeply touching passion for free collec-
tive bargaining, but contain assurances
and reassurances that the powers he exer-
cises are temporary.
"Speaking only for myself, I do not
regard the present powers of the War
Labor Board as suitable for determining
labor disputes in times of peace," he said.
"The foundation upon which the War
Labor Board machinery is erected is the
no-strike-no-lockout agreement for the du-
ration of the war. If and when that agree-
ment ends, the foundation will be with-
drawn and it will be necessary, in my
judgment, to abandon the structure; per-
haps with the erection of a new structure
on the basis of a new agreement. In nor-
mal times the economic strength that
lies behind the right to strike or lockout
is by all odds the most effective single
agency for settling labor troubles."
One can imagine that present at the
festive board where these statements
were made was a ghost, and that Mr. Davis
saw it. It was the ghost of a man named
Samuel Gompers.
Through many years of labor states-
manship, Gompers stood like a rock on
the principle of "voluntarism." He be-
lieved in building a labor movement on
economic strength alone. He abhorred gov-
ernment interference in labor affairs. He
shunned class political parties. And State
socialism was his lifelong aversion.
That ghost is restlessly pacing the ram-
parts these nights. More than one op-
portunist in government and labor is go-
ing to be chilled by its ominous warnings.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.