The New House
to Be Stronger
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
As has been said on all sides since the
election, the new House of Represent-
atives will be more conservative, more
independent of the Executive and better
balanced. What will that mean in practical
terms?
It means, first, that there will be a loose
working relationship between the strong
Republican minority and those Democrats
of conservative bent. These Democrats
come mostly from the South. Because they
believe that left-wing New Dealers are
intent on breaking up the traditional con-
trol of Southern politics, every bit of New
Deal legislation that seems to bear their
imprint will be suspect. How effectively
these suspicions may block administration
measures is suggested by the fact that
the Speakership of the House and 16
of the 25 most important standing com-
mittee chairmanships are held by mem-
bers from Southern or border States.
It means, second, that the Executive’s
habit of ordering House leaders around
as if they were subordinates in his ad-
ministration has come to an end. So
great was his power over the political
existence of the top-heavy majority that
for years the Democratic leaders could
scarcely resist any Presidential demand.
Now they can say, “Sorry, boss, but we
can’t get the votes.” That puts legislative
leaders back into the position they should
occupy. It makes them duly elected lead-
ers of an independent House, responsible
to that House alone.
HARDER WORKING
The new House will be harder working
because the authority of leaders to en-
force attendance will be greater. Over
and over in recent years the Speaker
and majority leader, who had difficulty
keeping members in attendance, could
assume that, with a majority of a hundred
or two, there would always be enough
Democratic votes. Now the majority is
so slim that members will have to stay
on the job when their leaders ask them to.
House leadership will remain in experi-
enced hands. Very little legislation, ex-
cept revenue bills, will go through. There
will be no more experimentation, and
Congress will write its own tax bills. The
fear of labor reprisals will be vastly less
of an influence on House action.
The Walter-Logan bill, clipping the
wings of bureaucracy, may be voted by a
House majority sufficiently large to defy
a veto, although such a prospect in the
Senate is not so clear. There will be not
only less blank-check appropriation of
money, but more care given to grants of
Presidential power.
Worth noting is the fact that the bonds
of personal affection between the House
and the President have never been strong,
nor the relations warm and affectionate.
With a few leaders the President has
had close and friendly relations. But many
members of the House have not seen the
President for years except at a distance.
To rank and file, even among Democrats,
the President is a remote and almost
legendary source of power to be feared
and obeyed only so long as his hold upon
the voters continues.
STRAIN EXISTS
This should not be too surprising. De-
spite the witchery of the President’s at-
traction for those who are close to him,
those who have seen him deal with small
groups of run-of-the-mill Congressmen
have noticed a strangeness in their rela-
tions, a failure to speak a common idiom.
Farley was almost universally loved in
Congress. So was Garner. But the President
was never wholly at one with Con-
gressmen. Perhaps this was because so
many people in his administration were
contemptuous of Congress and somehow
gave Congress the impression that they
were speaking for the President.
Perhaps it was because some of the
President’s personal opinions of Congress,
expressed in irritation or disappointment,
have got out, sufficiently enlarged in the
telling to ignite plenty of resentment.
Perhaps it was because of the President’s
long-standing habit of changing plans sud-
denly and without warning.
In any case, the strain exists. These
impairments in Congressional relations
with the Executive will reveal themselves
in the next year or two. They will not
lead to open breaks, but they will certainly
contribute to a stiffening of the
independence of the House.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.