Plumber's Lesson
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The Roosevelt administration could
learn something from the journeyman
plumber. The good plumber having
learned what he can of the trouble from
the incoherencies of the housewife takes
a minimum of tools and starts out to the
job.
When the President and his assorted
helpers get an SOS, they load up a truck
and trailer with every piece of machinery
in the shop, including a few homemade
inventions. Then they rattle down the
main street, making a commotion that
brings the populace out of the houses.
Finally, when the truck and trailer get
to the spot, somebody goes to work with
a simple wrench and sometimes it works.
But the housewife is beset with terror,
because she well knows that after the
pipe is fixed the zealous rescue crew will
want to stay to remodel the house.
THE OBSTACLE
The driver of the man power truck,
Paul McNutt, is easy to look at but hard
to listen to. Nine-tenths of what he has
said on man power has been unnecessary;
a lot of it has contradicted the quieter
comment of less vocal helpers. He seems
to be completely oblivious to the fact that
the reason that stronger man power policies
are not being enacted is none other
than Mr. McNutt himself.
Congress, the people to be regulated,
and sometimes, it would seem, the administration
itself, are afraid of him. His
gorgeous career has been a bit too obviously
directed. Having in childhood apparently
resolved upon great political objectives, he
has so saturated his moves with the aroma
of political interest that whatever he does
now has a way of disturbing people.
Probably it was just as well that no
general man power bill was presented to
Congress. Relatedly, and after long criticism
for inaction, Chairman McNutt of
the Manpower Commission went all out
for service legislation, only to have a
higher power decide to stick to executive
orders for the present at least. Perhaps
it was Mr. McNutt's bad luck that he
made his conviction, if not his conversion,
known only two weeks before election.
Had he been able to wait, his upset might
not have been so infelicitous.
The bill was to have provided "orderly"
distribution in the field. But this was the
usual New Dealish rhetoric. What regulation
does not emphasize "orderliness"?
The great powers would not have been
fully used, presumably, but Mr. McNutt's
skill in using the familiar technique of
the New Deal. In asking for much to get
little, failed him. In these days the public
expects the worst. This is not 1938, when
a quiet people did not scare easily. What
with vanishing freedoms at home, mixed
with Mr. McNutt's well-advertised ambitions,
the public took fright and Congress
put up its guard.
MANY MISGIVINGS
Objections from the labor union side
were the most vociferous, but industrial
managers also had their misgivings. President
A. F. Whitney of the Brotherhood
of Railroad Trainmen wired McNutt that
his reported policy was "akin to Nazi
economics," and Whitney was not thinking
of management either.
There is no longer any doubt of the
need for a vigorous and effective policy
of marshaling enough workers for industry
and farming. Secretary of Labor Perkins
recently put out statistics indicating
that 4,500,000 additional workers will be
needed next year and only 1,000,000 are
now available among the unemployed.
The continuous, daily, persistent conversation
in Washington about the need
for man power legislation has probably
been responsible for much of the shifting
of workers from job to job. Indeed, even
much of the absenteeism of which so
many employers complain may have been
due to workmen taking days off to look
for something else. If men are to be
"frozen" to jobs, as they might have suspected
they would be, they would naturally
prefer those with the most ice. An executive
order which referred all the
applications for work in war industry
to the public employment office would
make it useless for them to circulate.
It is probably too late to build up a
man power policy as a "system" comparable
to our selective service anyway.
Too much social, managerial and union
custom has been wrapped around the
subject of hiring men to permit its being
radically changed. Be that as it may, the
man power policy is likely to be built
up on Isaiah's formula: "For precept
must be upon precept, precept upon precept;
line upon line, line upon line; here
a little and there a little."
Copyright, 1912, by the Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.