It's Too Bad!
No Revolution!
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
One of our leftist radio commentators
almost tearfully reports from England
that the "tories are feeling their oats."
And Mr. Churchill's fine speech on Sunday showed a trace not only of pleasure
over the way the war is going, but a
quiet satisfaction that the war could be
won without an Anglo-American social
revolution. This is bad news to those on
the left here in the United States who
have been telling us that since England
was going Communist, we had better begin learning "The International."
It isn't coming out that way after all.
Take, for example, the painless demotion
of Sir Stafford Cripps, the British Francis Biddle. Mr. Churchill, wise with years
in politics, gave the ardent new orderite
a working job and took from him a talking job.
Sir Stafford had the nonadministrative
job of Lord Privy Seal. He served in the
little War Cabinet and acted as chief
government spokesman in the House of
Commons. It was a totally anomalous
situation. Nothing in the solid conservative philosophy of Churchill was represented by Cripps. But when it appeared
that the leftists in the House might embarrass, even threaten Churchill, it
seemed wise to have a sympathetic buffer
between them and the government.
CHURCHILL STRENGTHENED
Now victories have immensely strengthened Churchill. He no longer feels the
need of appeasing the fringe of malcontents. Cripps, while a devoted advocate of
economic experimentation, had no real
following as had Bevins or Morrison.
In his new job he will produce not
speeches, but plans. And if he doesn't
produce he must get out.
In this country, as in England, we
have heard for two or three years that
the Axis represented a conservative revolution which we could meet only by a
Communist revolution of our own. Because there was never any real basis for
either that diagnosis or that remedy,
both are being, perforce, discarded.
We learned that we were confronted
not by an ideological abstraction, but
by Germany and Japan, chronic aggressors, coupled with a little nation led
by the montebank, Mussolini. We learned
that the so-called Fascist doctrine was
simply a formula which helped a group
of gangster politicians to seize the economy of their countries. Of course, it was
anti-republican, as any tyranny has been
anti-republican since the ancient Greeks.
THEY UNDERESTIMATED
But now, at last, we are seeing that
the defeatists who would scrap republicanism to meet this threat vastly underestimated two sources of American and
British strength. One was political freedom, the other economic freedom. The
inexorable unrolling of the scroll of war
in the past year has shown that the industrial machine fostered under a free
economy here and in England is a supreme material factor.
So the prattle of pessimists is lost in
the din of production. The moment it becomes overwhelmingly clear that our salvation lies in the vitality of our own
system, the argument that we must turn
sharply leftward completely loses its
force. And with it go most of its out-
croppings.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.