That Report
of Beveridge
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Because of space limitation, reports of
the Beveridge social insurance plan to
date in this country have not really given
Americans an understanding of the con-
cessions of the much-abused system of
private enterprise made by Sir William.
Current publication of the report here,
in a fattish 300-page tome, makes it
possible to weigh its implications to Eng-
land and, incidentally, to us.
The Beveridge report was made roughly
a half century after Charles Booth's fa-
mous study, "Life and Labour of the
People in London." Sir William uses that
study as a means of measuring the im-
provement made in the past 40 or 50
years in the conditions of the English
working people. With great candor he
gives us the comparative facts—facts
which show that, in the period since the
Booth findings appeared, workers were
probably bettered more than in the thou-
sand years before. This is pretty discom-
forting to these American mourners who
would have you believe that in the years
before the great light broke in 1933
average and below-average folks here got
nothing but kicks from the boots of a
power-mad and decadent capitalism. Work-
ers came up a long way in the 40
years before that in England—here, too,
for that matter.
REAL WAGES UP
As against Charles Booth's figures, a
new survey in 1929 showed that "the
average workman in London could buy
a third more of articles of consumption
in return for labour of an hour's less dura-
tion per day than he could buy 40 years
before." The standard of living of the
work people of York in 1936 was 30 per
cent higher than in 1899. In London
the "crude death rate fell from 18.6 per
1000 in 1899 to 11.4 in 1935 and the infant
mortality rate fell from 159 to 58 per
thousand."
So in the first third of the new century
civilization was giving everybody more
than a 50 per cent better chance of sur-
vival and every child a 3-to-1 better
chance. These years, Sir William points
out, added two inches to the height of
every Yorkish child and five pounds to
his weight.
Beveridge observes that the period in
question included the four years of the
first World War. But he also specifically
acknowledges that growing general pros-
perity and rising wages in these years
did diminish want, although it did not
diminish it to insignificance.
Perhaps not too surprisingly Harold
Laski and other English radicals who
write for American periodicals have not
mentioned these significant statements in
their barrage of comment on the Bever-
idge report. To call attention to them
would weaken their case for what Laski
calls the need to terminate capitalism.
Nor will these facts be broadcast by
American viewers-with-alarm. That can
be depended upon.
Over all the Beveridge report proposes
no revolution. It does not call for any
political change whatever. By clear im-
plication, in fact, it assumes that the
cost of the extensions of insurance it
proposes will come from a continuation of
free enterprise.
SAME CONDITIONS HERE
Any detailed study of American living
conditions over the past 50 years would
show an upward trend comparable to that
noted by Beveridge. It might well be
less marked because conditions were bet-
ter here than in England in 1800, just as
they are now. But the enrichment of
every man's lot over the past half cen-
tury is a factor that cannot be denied.
The reasons for the improvement in-
clude many on which the questions raised
in the Beveridge report bear directly.
Organized labor, in England as well as
here, did grow in strength during that
period. Social legislation did its share.
But the vast increase in wealth, without
which the costs of social legislation and
higher wages could not have been paid,
came from economic factors—factors not
at all related to state action either in
England or America. The "growing gen-
eral prosperity" which Beveridge stresses
came from privately created mass produc-
tion, from privately endowed science and
technology and from privately conceived
and directed exploitation of natural re-
sources. It came also from a more acute
sense of public responsibility on the part
of businessmen who would be the last to
deny the validity of many of the objec-
tives of social legislation or of organized
labor.
Certainly the assumptions of these New
Dealers who would have us believe that
we emerged from the dark ages in 1933
are not verified by the Beveridge report.
Copyright, 1912, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.