The Ex-Justice
and His Job
New Price Control Act Will Mean
What the Character and Inclina-
tion of Mr. Byrnes Make It Mean
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Senate debate on the tax bill this week
will not rise to the heights of passion,
because every Senator and every in-
formed citizen knows that the bill is no
answer either to the needs of revenue
or to the threat of inflation The best
you can say is that it is a preliminary—
a species of stalling until the election is
over
It’s a big bill of course—the biggest
in our history It will raise the intake
to some $21,000,000,000 or $25,000,000,000
But it will leave an “inflation gap” as
large as the amount it takes away, and
that 20-odd billion dollars is enough to
blow the newest ex-Supreme Court jus-
tice through the roof of his new office in
the White House.
So here we are stalling again, and now
Secretary Morgenthau promises a new
bill to raise at least $5,000,000,000 more
How he expects to get it without shaking
off the obsession that seizes him and the
President whenever a sales tax is men-
tioned is hard to see
The price control bill, recently passed,
permits increases in the price of farm
products to increase production and to
care for increased costs of labor America
cannot starve or permit her allies to
starve Farm labor is desperately scarce
What the farmer doesn’t plant will not
grow The owner of a big dairy farm in
the East said the other day that he
simply could not care for the herd He
will sell or kill a part of it That means
less milk.
The CIO and the AFL are satisfied
and well they may be, for they have
four loopholes for increased wages, and
a weak Labor Board to hold them shut.
THE CAPABLE MR. BYRNES
Which brings us to the size, mental
bent and experience of Mr. Byrnes To
know the ex-justice is to find it difficult
to be critical of him. No more lovable,
fair, hard-working, and, in what he has
put his hand to, no more capable man
has ever appeared in Washington. He
is popular with all parties and all shades
of opinion in Congress and the admin-
istration He can listen with an utterly
receptive mind to every argument. He
simply could not be a bigot. He speaks
the truth and speaks it frankly His in-
dustry is incredible He has a passion for
detail
A quarter of a century in Congress
made him the most acute and effective
parliamentarian on the Hill In putting
through legislation he could do more in
a dozen brief whispered conferences with
legislators than Senator Barkley could
in two hours of bellowing He is probably
the closest friend of the two most ven-
erable and respected Democrats—Senator
Glass and Bernard Baruch Such devo-
tion as they have for Jim is not easily
won or lightly to be held. And, finally, no
one is more acutely aware of the admin-
istrative shortcomings of the President,
to whom Byrnes speaks frankly
And deep down in this man who made
his own way against great odds, is an in-
herent conservatism and a respect for pri-
vate enterprise If the Democratic party
should in national conclave adopt the Com-
munist manifesto as its platform, he would
probably leave it. But he would also drop
dead in the street outside the convention
hall.
HIS GREAT WEAKNESS
Which suggests his greatest liability in
the job presently before him To enforce
the Price Control Act in a manner that
is effective is going to inflict wounds
on the party in power that will cripple
it for a generation Mr Hoover lost hun-
dreds of thousands of votes as late as
1932 because 11 years before he had held
down the price of certain farm products
We would like to think that courage in
the present crisis would ultimately win
votes for the party that manifested that
courage But, realistically, it cannot be
so expected Mr Byrnes is a realist. This
is a case where an administration must
commit its party to a course that may
involve moral sacrifice that is expected
of every man in the armed forces.
Mr Byrnes, deeply, honestly, passion-
ately, believes in the Democratic party.
When the head of that party asked for
his Supreme Court plan in 1937, Mr.
Byrnes agreed almost immediately. As a
conservative, it must have been hard
He went along with the third term in
1910 He has manifested toward the Pres-
ident over these nine years the kind of
loyalty that made him a beloved figure
in the White House
That sort of loyalty is not forgotten by
the President But it has filled the high
offices of government with many incompe-
tents and semicompetents Here is the
weakness that Mr Byrnes must over-
come The best that honesty will permit
us to say is that if propinquity, persua-
siveness and good humor can bring the
President to the hard course ahead, Mr
Byrnes will succeed
His experience has gone almost wholly
to those aspects of economic life that ap-
pear in the legislative process It has not
greatly touched the realities of economic
life His chief interest has been govern-
ment finance, especially expenditures The
aged Senator Glass held to the chairman-
ship of the Committee on Appropriations
largely because he could count on the un-
failing help of Mr Byrnes
These are the qualities of the new di-
rector There is hope in them, and hope
is something in which we must liberally
indulge ourselves these days
(Copyright, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate),
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.