New American
Air Power
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
BALTIMORE—Washington has pulled
so many "top" authorities out of the hat
that no one paid much attention when, in
September, Charles E Wilson of General
Electric was named "top production au-
thority in the war program." But it be-
gins to look as if he has a real job. And
since he is a real industrialist, that is
good news. It begins to seem as if he is
to pull together for Mr. Nelson the scat-
tered threads of government relations
with plane production.
Ferdinand Eisenstadt, chairman of the
Army and Navy Munitions Board, will, it
is reported, shuffle and deal the cards, and
Mr. Wilson will play them. Since the
cards have been shuffled by so many peo-
ple already, we surmise that Mr. Eisen-
stadt will not be delayed in dealing them.
More simply stated, this means that Mr.
Eisenstadt will decide for Mr. Nelson
how much stuff will be allocated to the
production of various weapons—planes,
guns, tanks, ships and the like—and Mr.
Wilson, among other duties, will allocate
materials among plane manufacturers.
Such a division of authority is good so
far as it goes, and plane manufacturers
will have in Mr. Wilson a man who speaks
their language. This news, coming shortly
after the OWI report on American
planes, will give more assurance to an
uneasy public.
CONVENIENT CATALOGUE
The OWI report clearly reveals noth-
ing now. But it offers the public a con-
venient catalogue of various types of
planes now in production and on the fight-
ing fronts that gives citizen followers of
strategy something to guide them. It also
deals frankly with the overall estimation
of our planes as compared with those of
our allies and our enemies. And it should
silence the silly generalities, so often
uttered to the effect that our planes are
not good enough.
This report gives the public the neces-
sary light on what our planes are good
for, where they should be used and what,
as the war unfolds, we may expect of
them. The OWI catalogue of planes
with its comments on their performance
so far is something for the newspaper
reader to cut out and paste in his hat.
The long discussion of what has failed
in the past, the newspaper reader can
skip. Things are moving too fast now
for us to take time out to study history.
Two of these basic facts, however, the
OWI report did not clarify. First, why
can't this war be won along the lines de-
scribed by Messrs. Seversky and Ziff in
their immensely stimulating and widely
read books?
MAKING VICTORY POSSIBLE
The answer is that we can't win today's
war with tomorrow's planes. The govern-
ment is scrambling fast toward the for-
mula so brilliantly and unsuccessfully
pointed out years ago by Billy Mitchell,
and it will get enough of it into practice
to win the war through superior air
power. The long delay in accepting the
Mitchell formula will cost us heavily in
time and blood and money. But our planes
will make victory possible, and that is
important.
Some reasons why we cannot achieve
this Mitchell-Seversky-Ziff goal are these:
We do not yet have an independent air
force, and it looks as if we will not—
perhaps cannot—get it. So, big operations
are planned and executed by the Army or
Navy or both, with air power as the big
brother—and, believe us, it is a big brother.
The Solomon Islands episode illustrates
that.
Second, our sights were not lifted soon
enough on the size of our bombers, car-
goes and transports. We have big ones
and lots of them, and vast numbers and
still bigger ones on the way. And both
large and small planes that carry "in
some cases sensational promise of battle
performances."
Third, the Seversky demand for fighter
planes capable of very long range and
able to deliver themselves over vast ocean
spaces will probably not be attained un-
less this is a very long war.
BASICALLY DAY BOMBERS
Of course, the basic need of a unified
air force able to plan and execute big
operations on its own could not be dealt
with in a report issued by the government.
Also, such a report could not, for wise
and prudent reasons, tell about new de-
signs capable of "sensational" perform-
ance.
But the OWI report by inference stat-
ed, although it did not underline, a fact
underlying all our American production.
Our bombers are basically day bombers.
English and German bombers failed in
day bombing. Teamed with the English,
however, we have the necessary double
punching power. Our bombers are better
because they are good for 21 hours of
attack. The battle over Germany will
prove the tremendous good fortune that
is ours in the fact that we can thus sup-
plement the British.
These observations are not important
enough perhaps to stick in the afore-
mentioned hat along with the OWI cata-
logue. But they are worth remembering.
Copyright 1942 by the Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Grains and Gains
Washington Star
The United States produces 28 per cent
of all the salt in the world. The way
things are going, it will need it all for
home consumption, to take grain by grain
with stories of Axis successes, not to men-
tion constant bulletins about how we have
"blasted" our enemies.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.