The Predictions
on the Election
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A day or two before election, this col-
umn attempted to give a series of election
prospects. It claimed no gift of prophecy,
but attempted to interpret trends. Among
other things, it set forth various estimates
of the number of changes in House seats
by wise political observers who were will-
ing to express an opinion.
Among all the people who gave me the
benefit of a private estimate, the man
who came nearest to the actual result
said that the Democratic majority would
go down to 225. That man, I am now privi-
leged to say, was James A. Farley. His
estimate, which for obvious reasons could
not be made public at the time, thus came
within five seats of the actual result.
Mr. Farley, incidentally—and most sig-
nificantly—toward the end of the cam-
paign made a speech warning people
against too much confidence in polls. He
said, citing the Literary Digest poll of
1936, that sooner or later every poll goes
wrong. If we take Dr. Gallup’s poll as the
most prominent national example, it is
clear now that Mr. Farley made lots of
sense.
GALLUP’S OUTLOOK
It is true that Dr. Gallup can reply
that his predictions of the New York Gov-
ernorship percentages were very accurate.
But it is hard to see how he can claim
much for his predictions on Congress. A
study of those laid down beside the actual
vote should throw some useful light upon
polls and poll taking.
On May 9, Dr. Gallup published an
“if-the-election-were-today” poll, saying the
Democrats would gain 38 seats. On June
20, another, indicating a Democratic “gain”
of 10 seats. On Sept. 8, a Republican
“gain” of 21 seats. On Oct. 5, a Republican
gain of from “13 to 35” seats.
Then, through October, he saw Repub-
lican chances “fading.” The final poll was
published on Sunday, Nov. 1. It held that
the Democrats would get from 245 to 265
seats—in short, that there would be no
substantial change from the present Con-
gress. At this date, the Democrats have
elected only 220, with two seats in doubt.
Dr. Gallup said very confidently in his
final prediction that “the chief surprise in
next Tuesday’s election will be the con-
tinued strength of the Democrats nation-
ally as shown in the Congressional races.”
The biggest surprise seems to have been
reserved for Dr. Gallup himself.
YARDSTICK CHANGES
It is not altogether clear what went
wrong, because Dr. Gallup did not de-
scribe in detail how his poll was taken.
In fairness to Dr. Gallup it should be
added that his results were not based
upon polls in each individual State or Con-
gressional district, but upon averages of
samples taken in the six large regions of
the country.
What apparently happened was that
his method of sampling failed to fit the
changed grouping of voters or the shifts
in sentiment among those who did vote.
That was what happened in the Literary
Digest poll of 1936. It attempted to apply
the same rule of sampling that it had
used in 1932. It failed to take into account
the fact that because of changes in the
appeal of the New Deal in certain sections
of the population, the whole political
grouping of the country had changed—
and a yardstick good in 1932 was not good
in 1936. The basic error was like nothing
so much as that of the man who left his
trousers out in the rain with consequent
shrinkage. When he put them on they
were the same trousers and he was the
same man. But the pants didn’t look well
with the coat.
Perhaps Dr. Gallup did not make the
same mistake as the Literary Digest, but
it would be interesting to have his
analysis of what did happen. For an error
of more than 30 seats is not small. Such
errors were not made by many old-
fashioned people who claimed no science
and followed their own instincts.
MUST BE PERFECTED
None of this is to say that polls aren’t
useful. It is merely to point to the long,
hard road to be traveled before any process
of polling by samples can be perfected.
Perhaps it is just as well that polls are
not completely accurate, because if they
were, the functioning of popular govern-
ment would be seriously impaired. Human
beings are not white mice, and experi-
ments on their thinking affect the think-
ing itself. If, for example, a poll could
be devised that recorded accurately the
sentiment of voters a week before election
and people knew it was accurate, the re-
sult of the election would be changed by
it and it would thus fail to predict the
election. But that is a worry we need not
face, considering the present imperfec-
tions of poll taking.
Copyright, 1942, by the Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.