A Question for
the New Congress
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
None of the Senate's recent efforts to
find out precisely what Mr. Wallace's
Board of Economic Warfare is doing has
brought out the most vital point at issue.
That point concerns the wisdom and pro-
priety of having the Vice-President of
the United States act as an administra-
tive officer of the government.
Only less important is the fact that
for the first time in 17 months the legis-
lative branch of government has begun
to learn something of the B.E.W., its
purpose and its works. The B.E.W. was
created by executive order, not by Con-
gressional act, on July 30, 1941. But it
has since the time of its creation spent
literally hundreds of millions of taxpay-
ers' and bond buyers' money—money ap-
propriated by Congress—without Congres-
sional check or inquiry until a few days
ago. Even then the action had to be taken
indirectly.
OPPORTUNITY ARISES
Largely through the efforts of Senator
Danaher of Connecticut, the Senate Bank-
ing and Currency Committee began secret
sessions to look into what has been freely
reported as an attempt by Secretary of
Commerce Jesse Jones to get back for the
R.F.C. authority to check expenditures
of the B.E.W.—authority which the Pres-
ident took from Mr. Jones some months
ago. Investigation of this minor point has
enabled the committee to call before it
Jones, the Vice-President, who is chair-
man of the B.E.W., and Milo Perkins,
its executive director.
Getting these men to tell some kind of
Congressional authority what the B.E.W.
is up to has been a major achievement.
It has destroyed the illusion that all of
the B.E.W.'s activities or projected activi-
ties must be profound military secrets.
And it has cleared up to the satisfaction
of members of the Senate Banking and
Currency Committee, at least, the disturb-
ing rumor that secondhand American ma-
chinery is being shipped abroad to build
factories that will compete with Ameri-
can goods after the war.
No investigation is needed, however, to
reveal the fact that there are too many
impractical people on the B.E.W. pay roll.
Or that they talk too much.
A NEW AGENCY
In any event, the new Congress should
set up an agency to take over such of the
work of the shadowy and shambling
B.E.W. as is useful and enforce directly
a strict accounting of that work. And
while Congress is at it, it ought to put
the work under someone other than the
Vice-President.
There are two traditions about the
American Vice-President—one, that he is
a source of innocent merriment; the
other, that he should be detached and
silent, meddling in neither legislative
nor executive affairs. Mr. Wallace, a very
serious man, may well want to break
the tradition which makes light of the
Vice-Presidency. He may feel that he
should make speeches, however visionary
they may be.
But for Mr. Wallace, moderator and
presiding officer of the Senate, to be in a
position where he can and must be sub-
jected, as chairman of the B.E.W., to
frequent inquiry by committees of the
Senate is had in principle and in practice.
Strictly speaking, Mr. Wallace is neither
a legislative nor an executive officer.
Strictly speaking, he is subject constitu-
tionally neither to the President nor Con-
gress. Anyone with such lofty and vague
immunity to responsibility has no busi-
ness directing the spending of public
money in a democracy.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.