Voluntary
or Else
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The central fact that has emerged from
a week's discussion of the draft is how
universal and unified the problem of man
power really is and, by inference at least,
how little unity has been observed in the
approaches to it. As late as a month ago
the estimates of prospective requirements
for military purposes varied by millions.
Now the Army has spoken. The Navy is
likewise clear. Other requirements will
have to be cut from the cloth that remains.
Up to now the selective service system,
operated as an almost wholly separate affair,
has brought the Army to the point
where it finds the average age of its men
too high. To correct this, it proposes to
begin by taking about 1,000,000 boys of
18 and 19, then call out of industry some
500,000 unmarried men who have been
deferred because they were in essential
jobs and then add enough others to bring
the total to 7,500,000.
But this drawing off of young men will
affect industry. It will impinge upon farming,
where the President suggests that the
scarcity of labor will be most serious. In
partial compensation, the Army is going
to send back an undisclosed number of
older men, some of the "ineffectives," to
use the Army's ungracious word. Among
these will be men who are useful but presumably
not quite as essential as younger
men who will take their places.
SERIOUS MALADJUSTMENT
Allowing for discrepancies of judgment
and circumstances between the draft
boards, it is evident that a serious maladjustment
has been permitted to grow up in
the age distribution of the Army. Much
of this appears to have occurred since
July and it may not be so bad as the testimony
made it seem. But to the extent to
which it is not serious, to that same degree
industry will not get back men who
are capable of replacing those who will
soon be drafted.
Out of the 1,000,000 boys under 20, the
500,000 "essentials" who are now more
essential to the Army than to industry
and the additional numbers who will be
needed to bring the services up to 7,500,000,
it is easy to see that civilian industry of
all kinds, including the war-production
factories, will suffer a widespread turnover
and readjustment over the next year.
Probably this readjustment is the special
province of the War Manpower Commission.
But if we had had any coordination
of man power worthy of the name
and if the commission had been set up
earlier the nature of the readjustment
could have been foreseen before it was
practically on us.
YOUNG FACTORY MEN
Many a factory force is still made up in
large part of the younger men. In one
middle-sized plant making aircraft parts,
for example, practically the entire force
was recruited about a year ago from young
men. There are machine-tool plants which
asked for and obtained, for a period of
time, an almost over-all deferment, only
to have draft boards forced recently to go
in and take men almost indiscriminately.
It is true, of course, that these men were
not the most skilled workmen in industry—certainly
not the tool and die makers
whose training requires three years or so—but
they are in general typical of the
new forces now in industry. Women have
been recruited recently, but as yet they
do not compose more than an eighth or
a tenth of the factory forces in the metal
trades, the core of war industry.
The replacement of the young men, at
least of the unmarried, is the task now
posed to industry and the Manpower Commission.
At long last some progress has
been made in determining how many men
the Army is going to require. At last the
Army has outlined its quota—the 7,500,000
total—and quotas for other departments
of economic life, including farming, the
essential services and the war industries
themselves, may be set up in the next few
months.
TOO MUCH CONFUSION
It was obvious many weeks back that
the sooner the services could decide how
many men they needed or could safely
withdraw from the production side the
sooner it would be possible to budget the
total working and fighting force.
In any event, the confusion among the
various agencies dealing with man power
would seem to call for some decisive reorganization
and centralization. Senator
Robert A. Taft last week introduced a bill
designed to cure this confusion. He would
put the selective service and the present
War Manpower Commission under a single
director with authority to formulate
and put into force a master plan providing
for the proper allocation of all available
man power to the armed forces, war industry,
agriculture, mining and such other
occupations and services as the director
deems essential to the conduct of the war
and the health and security of the civilian
population.
Some such reorganization is going to
become more urgent as the months pass.
Compulsion such as was hinted by the
President in his message is a step that
ought not to come until all else has failed.
Voluntary action might have a better
chance to succeed if Senator Taft's reorganization
should be tried first.
Copyright, 1942, by the Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Still Slaves and Serfs
St. Louis Star Times
"While bowing to a refugee King, a
Washington matron fell flat on her face."
We prate a lot about being free, and
equal, but many of us are slaves and
serfs at heart.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.