Labor Bills
Being Weighed
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Six important measures to regulate la-
bor are likely to come before the House
of Representatives this session. Two are
in bill form—the others are under dis-
cussion. They are:
1—The Smith antistrike bill, passed
last year by a big majority and subse-
quently buried in Senator Thomas’ Edu-
cation and Labor Committee. This will
be reintroduced. It prohibits strikes dur-
ing the present emergency.
2—The Hobbs antiracketeering bill,
which is designed to correct the amazing
situation described by the Supreme
Court’s holding that, while violence and
threats are unfortunate, they cannot be
reached by Federal law. This bill has
been introduced.
3—A suggested amendment to the Fed-
eral Corrupt Practices Act to outlaw politi-
cal contributions by labor unions. At
present contributions from corporations
are so prohibited.
4—A prohibition of “feather bed” rules
and practices, such as limitations on the
width of paint brushes, restrictions against
paint spraying machines, requirements
for the employment of people unnecessary
to a job, and the like.
5—An act to extend the permissible
hours of labor in a work week without
payment of overtime. The idea here would
be not to abolish all limitations on hours
of labor but (a) to present agreements
which fix rigid work weeks and prevent
overtime even when employees are will-
ing to work, and (b) to prevent volun-
tary agreements between employer and
employees to work overtime on a straight
time basis.
6—A bill to give legislative status to
the War Labor Board and to impose
limitations upon its policies and directives
particularly with reference to the closed
shop and maintenance of membership.
COHERENT LABOR POLICY
These measures, taken together, would
provide for the country a fairly clear-
cut and coherent labor policy—the kind
of policy which, under present conditions,
is sadly lacking. In place of capricious
administrative policies, they would set up
a fabric of law, binding upon both the
executive and judicial branches of gov-
ernment. The enactment of all six pro-
posals is unlikely, but some of them are
certain to pass in this session, for all
signs point to a strong public opinion
favoring the curbing of union excesses.
The decision as to what and how many
of these measures will be passed by the
House rests with the Republican House
members. That means, in substance, that
it rests with Minority Leader Martin and
a few other leaders. A group of Democrats
large enough to turn the tide could be
counted upon in the case of all six meas-
ures. At the moment, the statesmanship
and political judgment—mainly the latter
—of the Republican leaders are balancing
all the considerations involved. It is, in
fact, a critical moment in the life of the
Republican party.
On the political side, Republican leaders
are weighing the danger of being attacked
as antilabor against the undeniable fact
that the November elections demonstrated
great strength for such conservative candi-
dates for Senator as Revercomb of West
Virginia, Moore of Oklahoma, Wherry of
Nebraska, and Hawkes of New Jersey.
November also saw the election of a con-
siderable number of conservatively in-
clined Governors and the re-election to
the House of men who have consistently
advocated labor regulation.
AS IT STANDS NOW
It appears now that the Republicans
are about ready for a bill prohibiting
contributions by unions. The majority also
favor some kind of bill to require account-
ing by unions to their own membership.
On the rest of the six labor measures
there is hesitation.
It is, of course, unfair to expect Re-
publican Congressmen to rush into ad-
vance positions along the whole broad
front of labor reform. At this early date
the new members are scarcely acquainted
with their own leaders. But they must
know that they cannot look forward to
1944 as a year in which the Democrats
will defeat themselves.
The administration has done much to
show that it recognizes the change in the
national political temper. The opposition,
by the same token, cannot content itself
with crying out against bureaucracy. It
must actually do something about bu-
reaucracy—in government and in the
unions.
Copyright, 1947, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.