Third-Term Ban
Might Backfire
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The resolution of Senator Bailey of
North Carolina to initiate a two-term
constitutional amendment leaves a real
believer in the two-term limit cold. The
only benefit that might arise from its
introduction would be indirect. And the
Republicans may find it to be a political
Trojan horse.
The text of the proposed amendment
is this: "No person shall be chosen a
President for any term or be eligible to
hold the office of President during any
term if such person should have been
elected to and shall have held the office
of President during the whole or any
part of each of two prior terms, but this
article shall not prevent any person who
may hold the office of President during
the term within which this article is
ratified from holding such office for the
remainder of such term."
WHAT MIGHT BE SAID
If this were passed by Congress and
sent to the States before the election
next year, New Deal pundits would most
certainly say that Congress, by solemn
resolution, had designated Mr. Roosevelt
as the sole exception to limited tenure.
Whatever answer might be made to this
claim, it would be believed by many un-
thinking people, and thus help, rather
than hinder, the ambition of fourth-term
promoters.
As Senator Bailey says, his proposal
would not affect a fourth Roosevelt term.
This is because final ratification by three-
fourths of the States before the election
of 1944 is almost out of the question.
But if such an amendment were ratified
after a possible fourth inauguration of
Mr. Roosevelt, he would be ineligible for
a fifth term. The Bailey amendment thus
might very well be accepted with alacrity
by fourth-term sympathizers in Congress.
What do they care about the distant future?
They are not going to live forever.
Some of them have already repudiated
their solemn vote in 1928 when they re-
solved that a third term is a bad thing.
That, they implied by their servile reg-
ularity in 1940, applied only to a Re-
publican third term.
Republicans may well be wary of the
professed anti-New Deal Democrats. When
the roll was called in 1940, most of
them turned out to be Roosevelt sup-
porters after all. The people who oppose
Mr. Roosevelt for three years and 10
months are very numerous. The point
is that they ultimately support him, and
that's what really matters.
THE GREAT TRADITION
The issue that faces these people in
1944 is whether the success of what still
carries the name of the Democratic party
is more important than the prevention
of the perpetuation in office of a specific
regime. If they are willing to accept
party defeat for principle, well and good.
If not, the Republican party must go
it alone.
The issue that the Bailey resolution
fails to meet is the simple historical
fact that liberty, like virtue or life, needs
only to be lost once. There was only
one Octavius, but when he became Au-
gustus by the vote of the Roman Senate
(note this well) there was no more
Roman republic. There are those who
will laugh when they read this, but they
should be reminded that a lot of Romans
laughed in B.C. 27 and lived to regret it,
if perchance they escaped proscription.
With or without a constitutional amend-
ment, there is a constitutional tradition,
and on that tradition, based as it is on
common sense and reason, the 1944 issue
must stand or fall.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.