Dies Committee
Wins Backing
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Despite the immense volume of printed
and spoken denunciation of Martin Dies
and his committee over the past few
years, the House of Representatives will
continue to support him and to provide
his committee with money. There need
be no mystery about this if we look care-
fully both at the criticism of Dies and
the reasons for Congressional support of
him.
The President and members of his ad-
ministration are quite naturally irritated
at a man who persistently and regularly
pops up with evidence that tucked away
within the Federal government are peo-
ple who disagree with the whole philos-
ophy upon which that government rests.
It is not that these high official critics
of Dies agree with the girls and boys
Dies uncovers. It is rather that the pres-
ence of these people in the official house-
hold is an evidence of bad housekeeping.
STRANGE CASE
With Mrs. Roosevelt, the case is differ-
ent. Such is the breadth of her tolerance
for all sorts and conditions of thinking
that she has lost the capacity for critical
appraisal of people and ideas. If they
say they are for the downtrodden, she
is for them because she is apparently
willing to give anybody a whack at the
job of uplift.
Curiously enough—and it is amazing
the naivete should go so far—she seems
to see nothing wrong in the use of public
money to support do-gooders in jobs for
which they are not qualified. Their objec-
tives are to help people. She wants to
help people. So she approves when the
government helps people who want to
help people.
Much of the vast propaganda against
Dies in the public prints is the work of
friends and fellow voyagers of the official
gentry whom Mr. Dies uncovers. Many
of the people to whom he objects are
writing people. The flow of writing peo-
ple in and out of government is con-
tinuous. Touch one of them and the whole
tribe springs at you. They are a vital
species, this wordy race, hardened by
years of fighting in literary jungles.
Finally, there are people who criticize
Dies for his own excesses—his failure at
times to make fine distinctions in his in-
vestigations. These critics of Dies ought
to remember that in such a fight as he
has conducted nice distinctions are not
always possible. But it is undeniably
true that he slashes around a good bit
and occasionally hurts innocent people.
REASON FOR INDORSEMENT
The final appraisal of Dies, of course,
must rest upon a general evaluation of
what he has uncovered and of his own
essential integrity. His colleagues in the
House know these points best. They
have indorsed him again and again. The
House supports him for three reasons,
First, a majority of the House is clear-
ly of the opinion that there are men in
public jobs who do not believe in private
enterprise and the tradition of constitu-
tional government. They resent the fact
that men who do not believe our eco-
nomic system can endure are filling jobs
designed to promote and maintain our
economic system through regulation.
Second, many members of the House
passionately believe, as that fine old in-
dividualist, Hatton Sumners, said this
week, that "when the burden of govern-
mental concentration exceeds the ability
of the people to control it, we either have
to get rid of the concentration or get
rid of the popular control." Seeing the
public "forced to let the bureaus take
over," they conclude that, fundamentally,
Dies is fighting the vicious theory of ever-
increasing centralization.
APPROVAL FORECAST
Third, there are Congressmen who see,
in those attacked by Dies, men and wom-
en who are affiliated with neither party,
who never submit to popular election
and who, at election time, are carefully
kept in the background by the Presi-
dent and his legally constituted party.
In the past three campaigns the old party
war horses were used to pull the chariot
only to learn, after the election, that the
jobs were going to the "ideological boys."
The smoldering resentment of the po-
litically minded knows no bounds.
So Mr. Dies goes on scrutinizing per-
sonnel, compelling the chief bureaucrats
to be more and more careful in appoint-
ing people because of ideologies alone and
enforcing, in a rough sort of way, a
measure of efficiency and economy. After
favorable action by the Rules Committee,
it seems probable that the resolution to
continue the Dies investigation will pass
with less than 50 negative votes.
Copyright, 1943. Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.