Governors'
Brass Tacks
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Although the efforts of most Governors
who are at work on postwar plans receive
none of the ballyhoo Federal planning
gets, their activities are of prime practical
importance. For they are attempting to
come to grips in an exceedingly realistic
way with the problems of industrial re-
conversion, prospective unemployment
and the claims of returning soldiers which
their own States will have to face.
Within the last six weeks this reporter
has discussed these questions with the
Governors of California, Massachusetts,
New York, Minnesota and Ohio. All agree
that the core of the problem of postwar
planning is financial, and all are deter-
mined, as wise housekeepers, that their
States shall save some of the current lush
tax returns for the inevitable rainy day.
Surpluses are piling up in practically
all the States. At a rough guess, the 1942
State surpluses amount to two-thirds of
a billion dollars. The present year may
bring that sum close to a billion-and-a-
quarter.
In some States, like Minnesota and Mas-
sachusetts, there was a sizable deficit to
make up first. But even where surpluses
are small, the State credit standing has
been vastly bettered.
SOME READJUSTMENTS
In the main, the Governors have been
disposed to leave the general tax struc-
ture untouched, but to recommend sig-
nificant readjustment. In New York, Gov-
ernor Dewey has secured a number of
income-tax deductions; in Ohio, Governor
Bricker has recommended the removal of
the sales tax from food sold in restaurants,
and in California, Governor Warren has
recommended a cut in the sales tax from
3 to 2½ per cent, a war credit on bank
and corporation franchise taxes and cer-
tain income-tax exemptions.
For quite understandable reasons, how-
ever, taxpayer groups are crying out for
more reductions. The larger the surplus,
the greater the outcry. It is taking all the
courage and tact State officials have to
withstand the pressure of those who are
itching to slice deeply into the melon.
On the other hand, the spending itch is
also rampant in Legislatures. Fortunately,
it is modified somewhat by the fact that
most of the things spenders usually want
cannot be bought or built now. Past ex-
perience with legislative extravagance
gives taxpayer interest strong arguments
against piling up reserves for postwar
building and relief projects.
COMPROMISE IDEAS
Out of the cross pressures thus set up,
a number of compromise ideas are emerg-
ing. In Illinois, the State Chamber of
Commerce is working for a measure to
distribute a part of the income from the
State sales tax among the counties, as an
offset against general property taxes. In
California, the Governor proposes a large
disaster relief reserve which, because of
its high purposes, will be reasonably safe
from raids. Almost every State is estab-
lishing building funds frozen for the dura-
tion.
The billion-odd surplus of the States,
while it looks small compared with the
grandiose amounts of money our Federal
postwar spenders are wont to toss around
in conversation, should be a substantial
barrier against inflationary Federal spend-
ing. When, as is the case in several States,
it is invested in War Bonds, it is definitely
anti-inflationary.
The compelling importance of keeping
this money in the States becomes appar-
ent when the aims of a Federal bureauc-
racy intent upon spending borrowed
money for political perpetuation are
thoughtfully considered. The 48 States
are the only sure defense we have against
future extensions of Federal power. They
will do well to keep what they can of the
means to carry a sizable share of the post-
war load.
Copyright, 1043, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.