John Lewis
vs. the W.L.B.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CHICAGO, March 15. — Upon the
strength of John L. Lewis now depends
not only the life of the War Labor Board,
but the whole apparatus for regulating
wages and prices and for controlling infla-
tion.
The fix the bituminous coal mine
operators are in is clear enough. Their
negotiations are probably largely formal,
since they must give the appearance of
negotiating or the National Labor Rela-
tions Board will call them out at first
base. That board requires that negotia-
tions be carried on "in good faith." This
time, though, the operators are forbid-
den to raise wages, and so the board will
have to wink at the "fides." In any case,
the chief issue is obviously between Lewis
and the government, for any wage rise
would have to be sanctioned by the
W.L.B., and what is more, the operators
maintain that the added labor costs could
not be borne unless the government au-
thorized a boost in the price of coal.
UP TO PRESIDENT
The case will go to the W.L.B., of
course, and the board will, in effect, pass
it on up through the Byrnes channel to
Mr. Roosevelt. The board can hardly help
deciding against Lewis. But whether it
will do that before the miners strike,
with the expiration of their agreement
with the operators on March 31, is any-
body's guess. It is possible that the board
may delay developments by taking time
for investigation, but even this would
force weaker mines to close. In short, the
operators are like Gustave Flaubert's
traveler who was awakened in the night
by the ominous descent of the canopy
over his bed. Flaubert's traveler escaped
smothering by rolling out of the bed. Un-
fortunately, the mine operators can't, be-
cause, alone, they cannot avoid the
squeeze between the wage floor and the
price ceiling.
Mr. Roosevelt may appeal to the miners
over Lewis' head. It will probably do no
good. He will then have three possible
courses—either to yield to the demand for
a $2 a day increase or to try to break the
strike or to give the miners a consider-
able part of what they want.
Should he choose the first course, a
rise in coal prices once more would simply
be a first consequence. (They were lifted
about 25 cents a ton a few weeks ago to
allow for overtime on Saturdays.) The
"Little Steel" formula will have been
breached. Every union will demand and
get more money. Wages will rise every-
where. Prices will respond. Farmers will
get what they want, or some of it. The
inflationary spiral will be loosed.
IMPROBABLE COURSE
The second course—breaking the strike,
perhaps by government operation of the
mines—is most improbable because of
the obvious political repercussions it
would have. Still, there are those who be-
lieve that such is Lewis' bitterness to-
ward Mr. Roosevelt that he would like
to see that happen.
The chances are that the President
will choose the third, or compromise
course. But in that case, Lewis will never-
theless emerge the victor in his long
war with Mr. Roosevelt. He has never
forgiven Mr. Roosevelt for forcing him
into a position of isolation in the labor
movement. Only reluctantly has he gone
along with any governmental effort to
regulate wages, and he has always taken
the first opportunity to kick over the
machinery. He did so when a National
Defense Mediation Board decision went
against him, took his C.I.O. people out,
and wrecked or, to use miner's parlance,
"spragged" the board. Certainly, if the
government gives the miners any sub-
stantial portion of their demands, Lewis
will have succeeded in "spragging" the
W.L.B.
He will also have succeeded in demon-
strating to his constituents that he was
able to obtain more for them than even
a labor-loving government was willing
to grant. And perhaps it figures only in-
cidentally in his calculations that, what-
ever the pretense, it is hard to see how
there will be any controlling inflation
from there on.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.