Gag on Press
First of Many?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Probably the chief reason why the
President is keeping reporters out of the
Hot Springs food conference is that
there isn't enough food to go around—
not food for the reporters, but food to
be distributed to a hungry world. If that's
so, we may expect a long succession of
restrictions on the functioning of our free
press and, very probably, a crescendo of
complaint from it. For from here on
international conferences will be increas-
ingly given over to things of which there
is not enough to satisfy everyone—to the
distribution of territory, money and, above
all, freedom.
It's easy for governments to acquiesce
...in freedom of the press when a confer-
ence on generalities, the more meaning-
less the better, is involved. But the real
test of a government's devotion to the
principle of freedom of the press or, in
fact, of its trust of democracy is what
it does when a diplomatic bread riot
threatens.
WHAT WILL FOLLOW?
Obviously, the President would rather
take the stinging criticism now being
handed out by the press than submit to
the embarrassment of letting the world
know where food is going and why, and
overhear the haggling that accompanies
its apportionment. Restrictions upon the
reporting of the refugee conference in
Bermuda follow the food conference ruling.
Many more will follow, presumably
until we all fully appreciate the meaning
of total war.
The common cause of the matter is
that an international conference has very
special qualities that make press access
indispensable. For one thing, a good deal
of background education of the press and,
through it, of the people is necessary.
Publicity agents and official handouts
can't do that job. It means long discus-
sions with the delegates and experts
themselves. Beyond this, the continental
European tradition of a controlled press,
with undercover leakages of news and
propaganda, puts the more candid and
square-dealing Americans at an initial
disadvantage. Thus the official American
delegation needs the American press
more than the press needs the news.
A STRANGE CONTRAST
This seems a strange time for a gov-
ernment which pretends to a burning
desire to establish the Four Freedoms
everywhere to lop off the surest defense
that honest diplomacy can have; an in-
formed press and an informed public.
The great memorial to Jefferson was an
incongruous background this week for
the eloquence of a President who had
just restricted the press freedom beyond
anything known in this country. For
Jefferson, while fully aware of the dan-
gers of publicity, saw in the alternative
of secrecy a vastly greater potential dan-
ger. Freedom is not a matter that can,
like the President's monetary policy, be
put on a 24-hour subject-to-change basis.
The President's growing habit of se-
crecy savors of the medieval doctrine
that official business is the private prop-
erty of the ruler. Any person long in
office gets that kind of proprietary atti-
tude toward his job. The proposal that
Congress pry open the gate of the Hot
Springs food conference is a good one.
The food under discussion is not the
President's food; it belongs to all of us,
and Congress should be the final arbiter
of its disposition.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.