President's vs. Congress' Party
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When Congress returns from its short
visit home, we are apt to see still more
clearly the growing political division between
a President's party and a Congress
party. This new political development has
begun to be evident for some time; it
may well be decisive in 1944.
The recent Washington clashes between
the executive and legislative branches
of government are no mere squabbles over
details. They are evidences of a conflict
between philosophies of government on a
sweeping front. Most Washington observers
are too close to the firing line to see
what lies behind them.
It is common American delusion that
political issues are made in Washington.
Neither present conditions nor past history
bear out that theory. Nor are issues made
by leaders, however gifted. Politicians are
guided by the appearance of isolated spots
of opinion here and there in the country
which threaten to break out in a national
rash. They hover over those spots like
the family doctor watching an incipient
case of chicken pox.
STATES' RIGHTS ISSUE
This country has been developing a
major issue of States' rights for some
years now. In several conferences of Governors—national and regional—the issue
was rampant. We are all familiar with
local agitation over this or that war regulation. In the field of postwar planning,
scores of local communities and hundreds
of private organizations have created planning agencies. The meaning of this is that
Americans are determined not to permit
Washington to get a monopoly on planning.
In Cleveland last week, the C.I.O. and
A.F.L. members of a Mayor's Postwar
Planning Board withdrew with a big noise.
It is said that the inspiration for this
withdrawal came from the high union
labor sources in Washington. Possibly
there may even have been a nudge from
the Federal administration. In any case,
this particular hullabaloo clearly means
that the major union labor outfits, excepting the miners, are still inclined to go
along with the President's idea of salvation through nationalism. The politically
shrewd are watching to see if there are further union labor secessions from other
local planning boards.
The fight of the union labor groups
against the Congressmen who voted for
the Smith-Connally bill will be another
manifestation of the same basic struggle.
There the President's party will be storming a flock of local strongholds.
BASIS OF THE STRUGGLE
Sooner or later, this political battle will
be joined in many other ways. The fourth-term drive, which is operating on the
principle of long-distance ticklers from
Washington, is assuredly far from a grassroots movement. The President's party
hopes to capture the election by cultivating nationally organized means of controlling local votes. It knows well how
much it has lost—perhaps permanently—
in rural districts and small towns. The
President long ago cast his bread on the
waters of the cities. His appeal to union
labor, to the prospective relief clients and
to other groups in cities is counted on to
carry big States despite rural losses. And
the President's party places much hope
in the tremendous increase in population
in northern and western cities.
Meanwhile, the Congress party will be
the beneficiary of all the grass-roots discontent that has intensified in the past
year and a half. Congress, being vastly
closer to local sentiment than the top-heavy
bureaucracy, will probably respond more
strongly to that discontent. That Republican strategy can well take account of
the factors behind the Congress party in
formulating its policies is obvious. Whoever is nominated by the Republicans will
have the President's party as an opponent. For the election is sure to be a
contest between the personal-leadership
principle and old-fashioned democracy.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.