What the New Sack of Rome Means
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Something other than shells and bombs
may well explode in Europe as the Nazis
sight their guns on the streets leading to
the Vatican. The pent-up feelings of two
fifths of the population of Germany who
profess the Roman Catholic faith are a
none-too-secret weapon—a weapon not of
Hitler, but of the Allies. That force might
blow the Nazi party back into the muck
from which it came.
No one knows that better than that
renegade Catholic himself—Schicklgruber
—but his course of action has led into a
position from which he may not be able
to withdraw, and in which his intuition
is at the mercy of the brutal terror he has
released.
The Catholic Church in Germany still
remains a powerful factor in German psychology. Its priests are well educated and
no strangers to political strategy. Bismarck
lost his only war, the “Kulturkampf,” to
the church. The memory of the great
Centrist party is fresh in German minds.
Nazi education has diluted or destroyed
the faith of many young Catholics, but
adult loyalty to the church remains.
THE POPE’S WEAPON
As everyone knows, Pius XII knows
the German people well. Cardinal Pacelli’s
career in Germany during and after the
first World War was distinguished by
superlative diplomacy, moral influence and
unbelievable courage. He has faced German guns before. It is a fact not well
known that, in 1917, he came close to
bringing peace in Europe. Only the stupidity and self-deception of Chancellor
Michaels, after the defeat of Kerensky,
prevented the consummation of the Cardinal’s efforts.
Speculation on what may happen as Allied armies approach Rome is not easy.
But it is clear that the Pope will not
leave Rome an acquiescent prisoner. He
will disdain the “protection” of Hitler. If
he is removed, brute force will have to be
used, which means that retaliatory force
may break out all over Europe—especially
In Germany. To threats from German leaders in Rome, the Pope can answer from
Schiller in German as good as their own,
“I am in the obligation of a higher lord
than yours.”
OTHER BRUTALITIES
Nor will he be the first Pope who has
witnessed German brutality in Rome. Descriptions of the sack of Rome in 1527 by
the Germans and Spanish sound like last
week’s dispatches from Naples. A modern book, “The Man of the Renaissance,”
by Ralph Roeder, vividly describes that
occasion:
“The Spanish began to substitute ransom for slaughter; the Germans baited
them for their backsliding. That night
only the murdered slept. It was a night
of exploding shrines, of lurid brilliance, or
sulphurous gloom. The havoc was wholesale; neither religious nor diplomatic immunity nor age nor sex had been spared;
women, children, masters, menials, clerics,
laymen, lay pell-mell in the streets, in
the churches, in windows, in portals, and
in pieces, like the garbled litter of a mimic
doomsday, stumbled over by scavengers,
worried by dogs, and the survivors lived
to envy them.”
A MORAL FORCE NOW
Pope Clement VII did not hesitate. As
the danger approached he rose to it. He
refused to compound the crime and bargain under pressure; he wrapped himself
in his sacerdotal robes and prepared to
meet the morrow in state and succumb,
if need be, on his throne.
The “glorious” memories of Germany,
of which Hitler has prated so often, could
do worse than ruminate upon that bit of
Teutonic conquest and its outcome. The
Germans are facing an abler Pope than
Clement now, and infinitely more relentless military opposition is on the way.
Naples shows that German barbarism has
lost nothing of its evil in 400 years, but
fortunately there is in the world now a
moral force greater than anything conceived by the Renaissance.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.