The termination of. Alexander Wooll-
cott's career while he was engaged in a
radio program designed to solve postwar
problems was a great loss to those who
enjoyed his contributions to literary and
dramatic criticism. Perhaps it was also a
loss to statesmanship for, as planned, the
program was to tell us what to do with
Germany after the war.
Mr. Woollcott's associates on the pro-
gram, a writer of mystery stories, a charm-
ing lady, who has written a new romance,
and a couple of college presidents, car-
ried on nevertheless. But somehow the
efforts of amateurs to solve the oldest
problem of the oldest art in the world is
not conducive to serious listening.
ADVICE IN A LETTER
Which made this reporter read with In-
tense interest a letter just received from
a valued friend, a certain Prof. Chipsmore.
"I very much fear," the old professor
writes, "that we shall continue to hear
this year and next from those amateurs
in foreign relations whose voices have
been so loud in America for some time
past. They know as little about foreign
relations as I know about surrealism. Still
they continue to bombard us with mean-
ingless phrases and catch words and to
egg us into adopting heaven knows what
vapidities they call peace formulas."
"Their name is legion," the letter con-
tinues. "They range from writers of
sugary romance to that army of assorted
people who live off those who write. There
are ex-writers of mystery stories and of
psychological problem plays, book review-
ers who scribble on the backs of menus
and theater programs self-confident ap-
praisals of books on Asiatic affairs, jour-
nalists who, having been to Europe at
least once, dash off books solving the
problems of Europe. Some are lawyers
with thin practices; some financial wizards
with business shrinkages and, of course,
there are those without any trade at all,
but who seem to be able to maintain
credit at night spots and cocktail bars.
"They are great at organizing. The doz-
ens of committees and associations which
have sprung up since Poland fell have
given these dabblers in world politics
chances to speak, preside, write manifes-
tos and generally needle the public. Their
job was simple at first. It involved noth-
ing beyond advocacy of our participation
in the war. They didn't even succeed at
that. It was Tojo and Hitler who got us
into war.
PHRASES STILL USABLE
"A time after war started these volun-
teer directors of destiny found their oc-
cupation gone. They suddenly discovered
that in a war thinking is done by the
general staff and fighting is done by sol-
diers. So, many of them turned to politics.
They decided to purge Congress of all
who did not meet their pre-Pearl Harbor
specifications. But even that called for a
sort of technique and know-how they
didn't have. Their venture was a flop.
"Now they fly full-throated toward the
peace. Some of their well-worn phrases
like 'American responsibility in world af-
fairs,' 'global strategy' and 'win the peace'
they find are still usable.
"But the uses of the amateurs ended
with Pearl Harbor, if they had uses be-
fore that. They can make phrases and
raise their voices. But in that which wins
wars and establishes peace they belong
to the unskilled and the unemployable.
They know no military strategy. They
can't produce the material of war. They
couldn't tell a drill press from a lathe.
They couldn't inoculate a soldier against
tropical disease.
"Nor can they contribute to peace, for
the weaving of international relations is
an art as old as history.
THEY LACK HUMILITY
"As I sit here and look at my books,
humility is forced upon me. No such hu-
mility seems to afflict the 'global' talkers,
because most of them have not even
heard of the long history of peacemaking.
I suspect that no fashionable night club
would admit an old Dutchman named
Grotius. Surely he would find no friend
there to identify him. A professor at whose
feet I once sat, John Bassett Moore, is
still toiling, at the age of 82, on his com-
pilation of international law and arbitra-
tions. His 22 volumes are on my shelves.
He has been working five years since the
last of them appeared. And he is only
one of many.
"True, the wisdom of centuries has not
taught us how to abolish war. The art of
medicine has not abolished disease, either,
but it has made the life span longer. We
must remember that the world has had
peace—lots of it—as well as war, and
that peace had to be made by the art of
government.
"We can make this a better peace, but
it will be a peace made out of old wisdom.
There is no new patent formula. And the
global talkers are neither going to pro-
duce one nor contribute anything else of
much consequence in the approach to
peace."
Copyright, 1948, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.