The President's
Attack on Press
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The average reader of this or any other
newspaper has a right to wonder what
connection there is between the Chester
Davis resignation, the Wallace-Jones feud
and the President's answer to questions
about these items of news. For the President's
answer had no relation to the
issues involved, but had to do with the
honesty of newspapers, their publishers
and those who write for them.
Mr. Roosevelt's press conference speech
about the press was an old record, worn
and scratched after 10 years of playing.
Perhaps for that reason, any comment
about it should be humorous in tone. But
the purpose of this oft-played Presidential
record is not to provoke humor, Mr. Roosevelt
repeats the theme for a wholly different
purpose—the purpose of inducing the
American people to doubt everything they
read.
OBJECT OF THE CRITICISM
The President's criticism is mainly directed
at a specific group of newspaper
men—those men, who, as employees of
newspapers throughout the country, work
in Washington collecting and writing the
news of the government's doings there.
A fairly intimate acquaintance with these
men makes the President's criticism exceedingly
hard to understand. They are,
so far as political preferences go, an extremely
assorted group. Some few are
distinctly friendly to the New Deal; some
distinctly unfriendly. But most of them
are so interested in getting and reporting
news that they have little time for philosophic
pondering on the rights and wrongs
of Mr. Roosevelt's policies. They are reporters
first and foremost.
What is more, many of these men,
though they may work for anti-New Deal
publishers, are by conviction New Dealers.
Some, of course, are anti-New Deal
working for New Deal publishers. Still
others, whose product is syndicated, work
for many publishers. The common ground
for all these complex personal situations
is fair and honest reporting of the news.
Through the cross-hatching of biases and
allegiances, what emerges is fact.
A FIGHT IS NEWS
The immediate grievance of the President
and of Elmer Davis, too, for that
matter, is that the reporters in Washington
treat as news the antagonisms within
the administration. There are two answers
to this. First, a conflict, a fight, is
news and the public is entitled to know
about it. Second, Washington correspondents,
in the aggregate, have a better
chance of knowing about undercover conflicts
in the administration than the President
himself. For the relationship between
the major correspondents and the
major officials is very close. Every correspondent
knows some Cabinet officials
well, and every Cabinet official knows
some correspondents well. Off-the-record
grievances are poured out hourly and
daily to friendly newspapermen. Most of
this material is confidential and is never
published. Most of it never actually
reaches the President, for only in a crisis
does a high official take a grievance to the
President. But the newspapermen cannot
help but know fairly well in advance
when a storm is to break.
The Wallace-Jones row was old stuff.
It was aired before a Senate committee
months ago. This column commented on
it exactly six and a half months ago.
It is curious that the President seems so
surprised that news of the row makes the
headlines now, since not only the President
but several of his various and assorted
trouble shooters have had more
than seven months to work on the two
contestants. Does he expect men whose
business is to get the news to suppress
not only the fact of a difference of opinion,
but the abysmal failure of the government
to settle feuds of this kind?
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.