We Need to Keep
Merchant Marine
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The recommendations recently made
public by the American Merchant Marine
Institute recall some of the most glorious
as well as some of the most regrettable
pages of American history. Significantly,
this report reminds us that it is once
more the luck of the United States to
have a chance to right a great wrong.
Shortly after Senator Hugo Black’s at-
tack on the merchant marine ended with
his appointment to the Supreme Court of
the United States, the American steam-
ship companies formed the Institute un-
der whose auspices the present report
appears. They had found that as indi-
vidual companies they were the easy prey
of demagogic Congressional attacks.
What was needed was some form of unit-
ed effort to convince the country that a
good merchant marine was a matter of
national safety and utility. Now, at a
time when we are faced with the danger
of repeating two blunders which have
marked our past policy, the Institute is
tactfully attempting to bring this point
home.

BITTER FRUIT OF NEGLECT

After the American merchant marine,
struggling up from meager beginnings,
had survived the War of 1812, it grew un-
til by 1861 it was second only to that of
the mother country. During the Civil War
our merchant marine suffered tremendous
losses from the depredations of British-
built Confederate cruisers. Probably be-
cause we were too busy building railroads,
it was not rebuilt after that. When Mark
Hanna, wisely perceiving that since we
had assumed imperial responsibilities in
1898, we must have a merchant marine to
supplement the Navy, advocated ship sub-
sidies he was shouted down as a capitalist
who wanted something for nothing. “Cor-
porations” were unpopular. The first
Roosevelt, worried in 1903 about a possi-
ble Hanna Presidential candidacy, turned
to home affairs. Our new empire was left
dependent upon foreign merchant ships.
When the first World War came we
reaped the bitter fruit of neglect. With
incredible effort and expense, we were
obliged to create a new merchant marine.
Then, after the war, we let it rust and
rot.

SHIPPERS DISCOURAGED

In 1926 Congress provided a modest
subsidy system, disguised under the form
of mail contracts. In 1935 the President
recommended a new act, frankly based
upon subsidies. This was in the midst of
the protracted Senatorial investigation in
which Black blew up a few irregularities
into a national scandal. For some rea-
son, despite his outward sympathy for
adequate subsidies, the President never
really backed up the fairly good subsidy
bill that appeared after his message. Re-
form bills had the right of way in those
years.
Without strong guidance, the bill fell
victim to a number of destructive amend-
ments with which Black plastered it. It
left the shipping companies utterly dis-
couraged, although under Joseph J. Ken-
nedy the new Maritime Commission made
a beginning. So once more we entered
a war without adequate protection for
our armed forces. And once more we
have had to build a merchant marine the
hard and costly way.
In the discussion eight years back
many foolish things were said by our
advocates of free trade about paying our
trade balance by shipping in foreign bot-
toms. The same messiahs are still
abroad. Their curious logic holds that
we will develop world trade by sinking
our own ships and letting other nations
monopolize shipping. Let it be said that
foreign nations are eager to foster that
delusion among us.
This question calls for a decision, once
and for all, in 1941.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.