Meat Trouble
Just a Starter!
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Herbert Hoover's grim warning that we
are threatened with greater shortages of
meats on our own home front than in
World War I was literally a masterpiece
of understatement. Meat shortages and
meat prices are the symptoms of a whole
nest of perplexities which are going to
catch up with Prentiss Brown and most
of the rest of us.
For some strange reason people are still
thinking of the meat shortage as an abso-
lute shortage, when the trouble actually
comes from a short-circuiting of the supply.
We do have a much larger demand for
meat, thanks to lease-lend shipments, the
needs of the Army and the fact that more
people are willing and able to spend
money for better grades of meat. But we
also have a larger supply.
The O.P:A. set ceilings on prices the
packer could pay for animals, but these
were what prices happened to be as of a
definite date. That left some packers
lower in the same city than other packers.
It left whole markets lower. Cleveland,
for instance, was lower than New York.
Livestock naturally went first to the pack-
ers and then to the markets paying the
highest prices. A number of small-pack-
ers had to close because they were receiv-
ing too little to keep them going. The
ceilings have not yet been adjusted.
HOW IT WORKS OUT
But the diversion of meat to higher-
priced markets because of differences in
price ceilings was merely a first step. The
next thing to happen was the increase of
local or village slaughtering. This fur-
ther reduced the supply of live animals
to the packers in the big cities. In some
eastern centers cattle receipts have gone
off more than 50 per cent and hog re-
ceipts perhaps 30 per cent from what they
would be if they matched the hog popula-
tion. The effects of this on retailing need
no description. Steady retail customers
known to the dealer continue to get what
they want, and strangers get little or
nothing.
On the supply side there has grown up
a market partly legitimate and partly
bootleg. Farmers were told not to market
more than their usual amounts of meat.
But until the O.P.A. and the Department
of Agriculture began their new campaign
on "meatlegging" last week there was
almost no enforcement of this order. A
horde of amateur or poorly equipped
slaughterers has started up, buying from
the farmers at the farm or in auctions
and, incidentally, pushing meat distribu-
tion some 40 years back.
Partly to blame for this are the shortage
of tires and the O.D.T.'s orders cutting
down truck operations. The city packers
quit supplying the outlying centers and
the latter undertook to find their own
meat supplies. Obviously they found
more than they thought was there. In
any case, in regions where the city and
small-town population is so situated as to
make direct distribution easy—regions
where everybody knows farmers, is re-
lated to farmers, or just came off a farm—
it was easy for the black market to get
going.
OTHER REMEDIES
By the same token, it will be exceed-
ingly hard to stop. A rigid enforcement
of all the laws and regulations might stop
it. Revenuers will fare better in the open
country than they traditionally do in the
mountain glens. But there will have to be
lots more of them.
Two more remedies suggest themselves.
The one is to put a ceiling on livestock on
the farm. The other is to lift or level off
the packers' ceiling price on livestock.
But the first involves risking the ire of
the farmers, and the second involves letting
the cost of living rise another notch.
If meat prices rise, then other troubles
will follow. Once people think prices are
going up, the curve of the rise may not
be so easy to control.
To a degree, everything happening to
meat could happen to other foods capable
of being processed in smaller plants or on
the farm. The problem is one which a
food administration must cope with all
along the line. Part of it springs from the
farmer's resentment of controls over farm
prices while, in his judgment, the govern-
ment fails to demonstrate that it is ready
and able to control wages in the cities, including
overtime wages. Part is the
human urge that impels a farmer to make
no bones about selling a carcass to a
friend who is willing to pay more than
the government lets a city packer pay.
Every government which undertakes to
control food prices runs up against that
impulse. But this government has made
its job no easier by starting controls before
it was ready with the whole works.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.