Who's Turning
Conservative?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The belief that this administration is
turning conservative is so silly that it's
strange that experienced and honest
Washington correspondents can swallow
it. Yet this curious delusion seems to be
gaining currency. One form of it is the
repeated statement that the President
is deserting the New Deal. Another is
the story that various ardent young
Dealers, smarting under Congressional
hints that they might better be in uni-
form, are leaving Washington en masse
because they are angry at alleged con-
servative trends in Washington.
What are the facts? There has not
been one iota of evidence that the Pres-
ident is any less New Deallsh than he
has ever been. In fact, his last pertinent
public utterance up to the moment of
this writing was a scream of protest over
Congress' repeal of the $25,000 pay limit.
IT JUST ISN'T SO.
The so-called flight of the young New
Dealers, the second bit of supposedly
supporting evidence, has been like Mark
Twain's death-grossly exaggerated. It's
true that pointed questions have been
asked in Congress about why this or that
young bureaucrat isn't in the armed serv-
ices. The rumor has started that Prentiss
Brown contemplates a reduction in the
army of young lawyers, economists and
whatnots Leon Henderson brought into
the O.P.A. It's also true that there have
been a few resignations, but a check of
the news does not show over 10.
Apparently the howls of anguish over
the falling of one New Deal sparrow,
both in the administration and in the
leftish press, are loud enough to create
the impression that an army is being
evacuated. A close scrutiny of this New
Deal Dunkirk reveals a retreat that could
easily be carried in a rowboat.
The business of setting up a terrific
keening over a couple of sackings is old
and carefully calculated. It goes back to
the palmy days of Messrs. Corcoran and
Cohen. Its purpose was to pluck the
sleeve of the President whenever he
seemed even remotely inclined to listen
to any conservative advice. Some gullible
emissary would pass on to the White
House the hot tip that a score or more
of invaluable young reformers were plan-
ning to quit because the boss had neglect-
ed the revolution. The gag usually worked.
Reassurance was given; the young patri-
ots would sink back into their swivel
chairs and continue to sacrifice their lives
to reform.
SAME OLD SOUND EFFECTS
The current squawks are the same old
sound effects. The psychology behind them
is unwittingly suggested by a piece in
the Guild Reporter written by a staff
member of Marshall Field's P.M. Recit-
ing what "one of the most talented and
progressive young government officials"
told the reporter, the piece reads:
"If I had wanted to, I could have had
a commission two years ago, and I'd be
a great patriot sitting boldly behind a
desk somewhere. So I decided to stick
at a job where I thought I could do
some good." The young official is getting
sick of it all now, although he says he
would stick "if I felt we were getting
anywhere in this fight here." Discour-
aged, however, with the way the fight
"against the big business crowd in pro-
duction" is going, he says, "I am going
to be a hero. I am going back after that
commission and sit at a desk somewhere
filing cards for the rest of the war."
Two facts seem to emerge: the first,
that the crucifixion of the young man
consists of having to decide between sit-
ting at a desk without a commission and
sitting at a desk with a commission; the
second, that he and presumably his like-
minded friends are still primarily con-
cerned, not with the shooting war in
Tunisia and the South Pacific, but with
the grand maneuvers in what they play-
fully call "the battle of the Potomac."
Their whining is only part of the old
game.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.