Challenge Given
Party in Power
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Only the shadow of an inevitable judgment day could put Messrs. Wallace and
Ickes to such pains as to say that businessmen, not New Dealers, are running
the war on the home front. For since
neither of these men has been a friend
of business, they clearly imply their admission that the administration, domestically, has been a mess. Yet general impressions to that effect are not enough.
The confusion calls for spelling out. That,
in a free republic, should be the job of
the opposition party. But in the past three
years, Mr. Willkie, titular leader of that
party, has not lived up to his promise
to be a real opposition leader. So the job
has been essayed piecemeal by many
others—Congressmen, Governors and journalists.
Now David Hinshaw has come forward
to put together in book form a rounded
statement, in detail and with specific
examples, about what the government has
done at home since war came to us. In
his new book, "The Home Front," he has
given us the best over-all challenge to the
party in power that has appeared.
Hinshaw is aptly described as the best-
known unknown man in the United States.
A militant T.R. 1912 Progressive, he does
not represent reaction. Rather, he is one
of those progressives who has seen what
moonshine progressivism the New Deal
has come to be. Hinshaw is of the heart
and soil of America. He knows almost
everyone in these United States who has
had a hand in leading public opinion. He
hates sham and connivance. He is no
party robot, but believes in party government and party responsibility. And he
can speak the language of simple grassroots principle in terms that can be understood.
We have had a great grist of books by
self-styled intellectuals of the Presidential
party line which attempt to explain the
New Deal in terms of traditional Americanism. Hinshaw’s sharp scythe cuts
through all this mixture of totalitarianism,
Marxism and muddle, and reveals the
alien roots beneath. There are chapters
on food, labor, man power, industry and
the press as they have been affected by
Washington policies. Everywhere the underlying pattern he discloses is the same.
Hinshaw’s challenge to that latter-day
belief in miracle men which so afflicts
us is stated in these militant terms: “A
modern Plato’s republic, ruled by philosophers, a Campanella’s city of the sun,
ruled by priests, a Savonarola state socialism applied to ethics rather than to
economies (a fascinating idea), or a Bacon’s New Atlantis ruled by scientists—
all these shortcuts to perfection will remain inspiring dreams. But neither philosophers, nor priests, nor scientists, nor
politicians—no deus ex machina—can
save man’s institutions or his soul. He
alone can save them. New governmental,
social and economic opportunity can enable—even force—man to meet and fulfill
his individual responsibility.”
With the measure of free discussion
that is left us, this sort of theme must be
echoed by all who hope that improvement can come through the campaign and
election of 1944. Hinshaw has provided a
rousing keynote.
Copyright, 1941, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.