Racial and religious prejudices blazed
up this year in many city elections, but It
was the doubtful distinction of New York
to provide a special method of their ex-
pression-proportional representation. Al-
most every issue was raised in the elec-
tion of the New York City Council except
the really relevant question of city gov-
ernment.
The so-called Hare system of propor-
tional representation was put into the
New York City charter by a group of well-
meaning, but myopic "nonpartisan" mu-
nicipal uplifters. The argument for the
system is that it will destroy the hold of
major political parties on city govern-
ment, that city government has nothing
to do with the labels "Republican" and
"Democrat," that minority parties will be
represented and that candidates whose
supporters "think together, but live apart"
can get elected. The system, of course,
destroys representation by geographical
districts or wards.
PULLING THE STRINGS
But such are the mechanics of voting
and the psychology of voters that the new
system, having cast out the devil of par-
tisanship, opens the way to a whole flock
of still more devilish spirits.
The voter under this system is con-
fronted with a long list of names of can-
didates, hardly any of them familiar to
him. He votes blindly, guided by whether
the names suggest his own European na-
tional origins or whether he has been told
to vote for one or more of them, or some
other irrelevancy. Moreover, as a human
being, he is a member of many groups,
religious, party, family, industrial, racial
and nationalistic. Broken from his party
affiliations, he responds to one or many
of his other loyalties.
At this point, resourceful minorities get
behind the stage and pull the strings that
give them representation which is wholly
disproportionate to their legitimate
strength. Small groups of Communists in
New York did this. But the problem is
not Communism. It is the introduction
of bitter racial and religious hatreds into
elections.
In New York, a single Italian Commu-
nist, mostly hiding his Communist afilia-
tion, made many separate appeals. To
Italians, he was a "true son" of the Italian-
American people. ("Note the order of the
nationalities.") To Jewish voters he was
the enemy of British policy in Palestine,
to Negroes, he was pictorially presented
shaking hands with Paul Robeson. His
devotion to the Christian religion was
shown by a personal appearance before a
Negro Baptist congregation, where he
promised to raise money for a new house
of worship. The parson thereupon classed
this "humanitarian" with Lincoln and
Henry Ward Beecher.
A COMBINATION VOTE
Another very successful candidate
worked the Irish vote and the Negro vote
into a combination with the Transport
Union and the Communist party. Thus a
powerful union gets representation in the
government of a city which is the em-
ployer of many members of that union.
Another successful candidate was thus
hailed in a Communist newspaper: "For
he's Irish, Negro, Jewish, Italian, French
and English. Double Czech-American.
And that ain't all. He's a Baptist, Meth-
odist, Congregationalist, Lutheran, atheist,
Seventh-Day Adventist, orthodox Jewish,
Presbyterian, and lots more. He's a Com-
munist."
Some months ago, this column pointed
out the failure of proportional represen-
tation in the recent Irish election to give
the Free State a dependable government.
It remains to be noted that Germany,
before Hitler, destroyed true party re-
sponsibility by a form of proportional
representation. It is a singular irony that
in America the people who are doing the
most to destroy the two-party system are
apostles of municipal reform, with high
minds, but short wits.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Religion in Russia.
Christian Science Monitor
"This people is more religious than its
church." It would be hard to find any-
where else in so few words as penetrating
an observation on religion in Russia. It
was made by a French Ambassador in the
days of the last Czar. It helps to explain
why the builders of the Soviet state were
able to inflame many of the people against
the church without actually quenching the
religious spirit in the nation.
It is not likely any deep student of re-
ligion in Russia will assume that the So-
viet government's authorization for a con-
gress of bishops of the Greek Orthodox
Church in Russia (which has now been
held) is the result of international pres-
sures or that it reflects diplomatic maneu-
verings by Moscow. It is rather a recog-
nition of the unquenchable demand of the
Russian character for spiritual sustenance.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.