The political doings in North Africa are
not unusual for. a people of moods and
passions. France, in crisis and defeat, has
always been hard to understand.
The fact is that things are going better
in North Africa than might have been ex-
pected. In France, before the war, de
Gaulle was a military man of middle rank
who had a habit of stirring up things.
But he was brave, and his criticisms were
mainly justified. He is apparently the
sort of reformer whose ideas are better
than his manners, Hence, before the war
he won enemies rather than converts,
especially among the higher-ups in poli-
tics and in the army. When he landed in
England and started the Free French
movement, he won many sympathizers
but few friends there. The British found
him an overbearing and difficult guest.
MUST MAKE BEST OF IT
Such a man is seldom effective as an
administrator or a statesman, and we may
expect continuous difficulties wherever
de Gaulle is. It is a little silly, of course,
for some Americans to call him. as they
are doing, a new Joan of Arc. But things
being what they are, British and Ameri-
cans in Africa and Europe probably will
have to make the best of the situation.
Fortunately, Giraud is a soldier of pa-
tience and capacity.
The brightest bit of news that emerges
from the cloudy Giraud-de Gaulle meet-
ing is that the two men pledge them-
selves to return to the so-called constitu-
tion of the French Republic. The French
constitution was never a real constitu-
tion at all. It consisted of a series of laws
passed in the '70's, professedly intended
to provide a stop-gap provisional govern-
ment at a time when no one knew whether
France was to be a republic or a mon-
archy. So, the third French Republic was
hastily thrown together by a nation slowly
rising from crushing defeat.
CURIOUS RESULTS
The curious thing about the French
constitution makers is that when they
think they are building a permanent gov-
ernment, their work is short-lived; and
when, as in the '70's, they thought they
were improvising, their work stood the
test of time.
Another good that may come from the
jerry-built Giraud-de Gaulle peace is that
it may put an end to the sinister rumor,
prevalent in the United States, that Eng-
land proposed to annex French North
Africa to the British Empire as part of
the spoils of war. This sort of story is
poisonous to British-American war unity.
With a French nation "in being" and
located in North Africa, it is hard to be-
lieve that the United Nations could be so
stupid as to antagonize the French by
grabbing their territory. France, how-
ever distracted and unreliable, will be
necessary to the making of peace.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.