One City Keeps Its Balance in War
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
SANTA BARBARA, Feb. 10.—The city
of Santa Barbara broke into the news in
a big way 14 months ago when near-by
Goleta became the first place on the
North American continent to be attacked
by the enemy—a Jap submarine tossed
a few unfriendly calling cards in its direction. Now, in the second year of the war,
Santa Barbara has another kind of distinction. It is the most normal city that
this reporter has seen for many a month,
and in times of prodigious change the
usual is news.
This city’s job in normal times was
chiefly to provide rest, reflection and a
time for retrospect. Retired people of
means and others seeking a quiet holiday
came bringing wealth and no little fame
to the town. Nature and the warm, spontaneous hospitality of the residents did
the rest.
The necessities of war have prevented
the city from making any appeal for visitors. Travel is only for reasons of exigence now. Most Americans are taking a
rain check on recreation away from home.
Business in Santa Barbara has suffered
from that. There are a good many empty
stores, and there are some empty houses
—a fact which people in towns like San
Diego are urgently calling to the attention of unoccupied and retired men and
women in their own teeming and overburdened communities.
ALMOST BACK TO NORMAL
Because there are several war activities
at no great distance from Santa Barbara,
a good many soldiers pass through. There
are also friends and relatives of soldiers
passing through. The commercial hotels
are busy for that reason. The residential
hotels were hit badly last year when, at
the onset of war, easterners thought the
Pacific Coast was practically at the mercy
of the Japs. That fear has subsided now,
and while meticulous precautions are still
being taken against raids and invasion
dangers the earlier stages of nervousness have passed. So the residential hotels
are doing considerably better than they
did 12 months back. A good many people
with large residences, because of the gas
and man power shortage, are now living
in hotels, together with many of the
elderly visitors of long standing, who
have now come back for the winter.
The most marked change is the absence
of young people. Santa Barbara youngsters are in all of the armed services
everywhere. News of the war is eagerly
followed. The fact that the immediate
tasks of war and war industry are not
physically present in the town does not
mean that the consciousness of war is not
poignantly keen. Santa Barbara is doing
all it can and finding ways to do more.
But it is true that the quality of this
city’s awareness is somehow unique.
CRITICAL WESTERNERS
Perhaps it is that its people take a
broader view of the war than they do
in most places. As an editor of the Santa
Barbara News-Press said, “The people
here are seeing the total impact of the
whole war.” Like most Californians, they
wonder if Washington is not too concentrated on the war in Europe. They
have never made the eastern mistake of
underrating the Japs. And, like most
Westerners, they are critical of methods
of rationing.
Santa Barbara in wartime leaves two
lasting impressions with the observer.
First, that a place where tired and overworked managers of war industry can
get a moment’s renewal of strength for
the long pull has its legitimate role in
the whole picture of war. Second, that
seeing a city where war has changed
only a few superficial characteristics is
good for the traveler’s perspective. It
suggests that American life may not be
changed as greatly by the vast war effort
as we sometimes think.
There remains in this country a tightly
woven and unbelievably durable basis of
normal thinking and normal living. That
will be the foundation of readjustment
and recovery after the war. Beneath the
surface is a great tide of life flowing in
accustomed patterns.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.