Musical Chairs
in Washington
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
We are told now that more czars are
coming—vigorous men to take charge of
new posts of our economy. Judging by
past history, the more vigorous they are
the more vigorous the disputes will be.
The stronger the characters, the louder
the noise.
What with new czars marching in and
old ones bowing out, the Washington picture
looks more and more like the old
game, "going to Jerusalem" or "musical
chairs" or whatever they called it in your
part of the country. The music plays,
Round and round the players march, and
someone takes away a chair. Then bang
goes an executive order! There is a scramble
for seats. Two people occupy a single
chair. The President decides which has
possession.
A given set of problems gets itself defined.
An organization chart is fixed up
to cover these problems. Heads of agencies
are appointed. But before the new
czars get their hats off and their feet on
their desks, a lot of new problems arise
and overrun the nice organization. It
suggests the way a rubber plantation,
neglected for a while, gets taken over by
the jungle around it.
THE START OF TROUBLE
In the beginning the chief problem
was of the Army and Navy, and this was
the jolt that hit the country in 1940. The
Army and Navy each had a workable or,
at least, a logical scheme of organization.
The country had all the stuff the two
services could possibly want. All they
needed to do was to decide how to spend
their money and where to place their orders.
But 1940 meant a revolutionary rise
in their needs. A new service was needed—in
the air. A new Navy was needed.
And vast demands from abroad came in.
Still the essentials were there—someone
to decide what was needed, someone to
order it and a system of production to
make it. The emergency required only
that there be added someone to advise the
government where to get more things
and to advise producers how to get the
stuff made. That was Knudsen.
But soon another piece of machinery
was needed—a person to decide among
the many demands for the same materials,
that is, between Army and Navy and between
other claimants for things to make
things. This was a job of judging, of umpiring.
It was not an executive job in
the real sense—it was judicial.
But Mr. Nelson, the judge, found himself
taking on so many bailiffs, clerks,
amici curiae and other attendants that he
had more to do supervising his assistants
than he did judging cases. At this point
the President, seeing Mr. Nelson getting
entangled in the machinery of his court,
decided to put a judge over Mr. Nelson.
So Mr. Byrnes was brought in—this time
really and truly to do nothing but judge
and settle disputes.
MORE DIFFICULTIES
Meantime, however, Mr. Nelson set up
a quiet new method of classifying people.
He selected two assistants—one, Mr. Wilson,
to handle problems of getting things
made, the other, Mr. Eberstadt, to handle
getting things to make things. Meantime,
too, the rubber situation got out of hand,
and the Baruch committee came along
suggesting another kind of a way of
classifying things—by kinds of things
that it was necessary to get. That was
the World War I way of classifying
duties. The President agreed. In went
Mr. Jeffers.
Almost immediately Czar Jeffers found
that to get rubber to make rubber he
must get things to make rubber. But the
Army and Navy wanted things to make
things that Mr. Jeffers now also needed
to make things. Mr. Jeffers and the Army
thereupon fell on each other right lustily.
Whereat Mr. Nelson decided that much of
the job of Mr. Eberstadt, which was getting
things, really belonged to Mr. Wilson, whose
job was to see that things
were made, for, after all, the fellow who
had to get things made had to have power
to get the things to make them. So Mr. Wilson
and Mr. Eberstadt were at odds.
And there we are, with classifications
running into each other in all directions.
From which it appears that someone at
the top must have a fuzzy idea of the
first principle of administration. That is
to stick to one classification of things—
to keep things in logical groups. The
storekeeper does it in arranging goods on
his shelves. The housewife does it in her
kitchen. But a nation apparently cannot
afford logic.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.