Plan Offered
for Republicans
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
That the Republican party can provide
genuine leadership in the construction of
a reasonable international order after the
war was magnificently demonstrated last
week by Alf M. Landon's speech in Minneapolis.
Like Mr. Hoover, Mr. Landon has accepted
the broad implications of Winston
Churchill's speech in March, advocating a
postwar world based upon regional councils
for preserving peace. If Republicans
generally follow the cue of these two party
leaders, they can set their feet squarely on
the road to a successful future for themselves
and the country.
Landon made it clear that Republicans
need not base their case merely upon criticism
of the Roosevelt policies. On that even Mr.
Willkie must agree. But Landon went far
beyond Willkie in calling attention to the
genuinely constructive record of Republican
leaders after that momentous time, over 60
years ago, when Blaine created the good
neighbor policy in Pan-America. He pointed
out how as early as 1910 Theodore Roosevelt
advocated a league of peace; how Taft gave
Wilson the idea of such a league; and how,
through Hughes and Hoover, the party labored
sincerely throughout 12 years to set the
world on the road away from war.
Specifically, Mr. Landon suggested five
points of policy. First, he called for an
interim period after the war in which the
United Nations should concern themselves
with such problems as the just punishment
of the guilty, the disarmament of the enemy
powers, the conditional restoration of trade
relations, the relief of famine, the supervision
of the creation in the enemy countries of
responsible and representative governments,
and the setting up of commissions to offer
to the United Nations for consideration plans
for the solution of international economic
problems and relations, for the appointment
of temporary international forces to prevent
chaos, for the establishment of machinery
to preserve lasting peace, for international
recognition of the principle of religious
liberty and for the autonomy of nations.
Second, Landon stressed the desirability
of some form of permanent organization in
line with Churchill's proposal of regional
councils. We already have the basis of a
Pan-American council, Landon pointed
Third, he recommended the vesting in such
regional organizations of the immediate duty
of preventing international conflicts within
the regions.
Fourth, he called for the establishment of
a world organization to formulate, through
discussion and study, the principles and
customs of peace.
Fifth, and with no inconsiderable eloquence,
Landon advocated the development within
the United States of domestic policies that
are not totalitarian. The real force that
makes for isolation in America, he emphasized,
is the development of totalitarian economic
and political habits and policies here.
Landon has surveyed a broad highroad of
future national usefulness for his party. Its
other leaders would be well advised to study
his recommendations with the care they merit.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.