Unions to Hear
Charity Appeals?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Now with Santa Claus just around the
corner and fund-raising time for charitable
and educational purposes just past, the
people who must conduct the fund rais-
ing are more than ever worried about the
future. In every big city, boards of our
nonprofit institutions have been ponder-
ing for some years the question of "broad-
ening their base" of support.
Men and women who used to be "of
means" are yielding less and less, and the
end is not in sight. (Or perhaps we
should add the melancholy thought that
the end is in sight.) Funerals still open
strongboxes, but the contents thereof are
getting smaller. Private philanthropy,
which has been a great American contri-
bution to civilization, looks forward into
bleak years.
A NEW APPROACH
One of the ways of "broadening the
base" of private philanthropy in some
cities has been to put labor leaders on
boards and do a bit of courting in the
direction of labor union treasuries. Ac-
cording to reports, these leaders have not
yet acquired the conscientious board-
member habits of the old capitalist types.
The latter, as their years mounted and
business burdens became less pressing,
worked harder and harder at their philan-
thropic directorates. Their days were
spent in rushing from meeting to meeting.
Their names on the letterheads were not
mere embroidery; these men have been
working directors. The new labor board
members are going to have to learn to
share that detailed work and to help run
the institutions, not merely to watch the
familiar "rights" of labor.
There is no "class" struggle way of run-
ning a hospital. These institutions serve
all, should be supported by all; and labor
leaders as well as capitalists must learn
how to work together in keeping them
strong and efficient.
"A CONTRIBUTION?"
Hence, these labor leaders ultimately
will find administrators and board mem-
bers coming around to the same subject
that arises when a well-heeled alumnus
drops into the president's office: "How
about a nice contribution?" That will
complete the thrill that begins when their
names appear on the stationery.
Labor, as well as capital, is properly
concerned in preventing philanthropic
institutions from falling into the dead
hands of government, and fall they must
under present steady decline of philan-
thropic support, unless new sources of
private revenues are found.
Copyright, 1943,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.