A Lesson From the Eire Election
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The election just held in Eire has a
lesson of great importance to those who
believe in orderly and efficient government in the
United States—it has to do with the responsibility
of political parties.
When the Free State was set up two
decades ago, proportional representation
was adopted as a method of electing the
national legislature. The general idea was
to provide a means of giving each of
two factions a number of representatives
in exact proportion to its voting strength
in a country where the shades of opinion
were closely intermingled in all sections.
For a long time this method worked
well. That is, it worked well so long as
there were two distinct parties. But in
the course of time the two parties came
to substantial agreement, first on the
degree of home rule they favored and,
since 1939, on Irish neutrality in the
war. Then, as the two parties came close
to agreement on major issues, many little
differences of opinion began to assert
themselves as political movements. Blocs
of factions of the parties broke away
and formed independent parties with
their own candidates.
UNDEMOCRATIC CONTROL
As a result proportional representation
in the Irish election last week gave representation
to those parties in the Dail
Eireann. In the new Dail, De Valera's
party, the Flanna Fall, will have 66 seats
—a loss of seven. Cosgrave's Fine Gael
party will have 32—a loss of eight. The
seats lost by the two major parties will
go to the Labor party, which will have
17, and to the Farmers' party, which
will have nine. There will also be an
assorted group of independents numbering
13. Thus no party has a majority,
and government will have to be carried
on by deals among the groups, with
small parties based on minority economic
interests holding the balance of power.
Such a situation makes for unstable government,
for bloc rule, and for control
by minority. In short, a nice theoretical
system of voting intended to be democratic
really brings about an extremely
undemocratic control.
There has been a good deal of talk
about proportional representation in the
United States. It has been the pet of
theorists and special interests over the
past 30 years, it has been put over by
municipal reformers in several cities, including
New York. It has never been a
real success, partly because the technique
is very complicated, partly because it
brings out so many candidates that no
voter can possibly make a wise choice,
and mostly because it breaks up the parties
into warring factions.
When major political parties are weakened
or broken up, voters will veer in
all sorts of directions. They will vote
their economic interests, their religious
prejudices, or in accordance with some
other preference even less relevant.
IN BEHALF OF BIG PARTIES
Those who favor proportional representation
argue that where there are two
big political parties, no real distinction
exists between them. It is said that they
straddle basic issues and ultimately they
end in hypocrisy.
But this argument overlooks the fundamental
purpose of a party, which is
to provide a means of governing a nation.
If party labels are destroyed, government
breaks up into group conflict
and fails to provide truly effective public
administration. Much of France's weakness
came from that fact. The events of
the past few months certainly show that
the influence of special interest groups,
which the New Deal has tried to substitute
for real party government, has produced
much of the weakness in our own
war effort.
If, perchance, the two major parties
should break up in the United States as
they have in Eire, it would be impossible
to prosecute either the war or the
peace to follow. For our executive and
legislative branches of government, and
perhaps our courts as well, would be
moved by what minority groups want
rather than by consideration of broad national
interests.
The best way of representing that national
interest over all lesser interests
is through two large powerful parties.
England and the United States discovered
that long since. In Germany and
Italy a multiplicity of parties degenerated
into dictatorship, and in France into
chaos. Now Eire seems to be going the
same way. The two old parties have many
defects, but over the years they have
provided us with a means of stable government
without which no minority can
really be safe.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Is Liberty a Privilege?
By Judge James B. Diggs in Tulsa World
The philosophy of the New Deal denies
liberty to the individual, and where this
is not feasible it circumscribes the individual's
liberty to as great an extent as it
dares. It also opposes individuals attaining
a competent income by the exercise
of brawn and brain, and thus circumscribes
the liberty of accumulation. This is
sought to be achieved by converting into
the Treasury all money earned by the
labor of hand or brain beyond a certain
amount after paying Federal taxes.
At the same time it permits the reception
of income from property and investments
arising from inherited wealth or
individual investment to the extent of the
income derived from inherited property or
the returns from previous investment,
without limit, subject only to the taxes
to the same general extent as other citizens.
Thus it advocates for the first time
in American history a class distinction
which is detrimental to labor and to the
advantage of what the New Dealers have
termed "economic royalists" and "princes
of privilege."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.