Mr. Wallace's
Boomerang
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
One of the most publicized of the versa-
tilities of Henry Wallace is his ability to
throw the boomerang. There are two
kinds of this aboriginal weapon—the war
boomerang and the return boomerang.
The first, when thrown, hits the enemy.
The second is returned to the sender. It
all depends upon what is called the skew.
Henry’s must have had the wrong kind
of skew, for the missile thrown by the
Vice-President came back at the head of
the B.E.W.
It is an amusing coincidence that on
the same day that Mr. Wallace and his
B.E.W. were sunk by a White House broad-
side, the reviewers were crooning over
Mr. Wallace’s book on saving the world.
To read the book, however, is to learn
why the sinking was inevitable. Of all
the Roosevelt inept actions, the elevation
of Mr. Wallace to the nominal rank of
statesmanship was probably the most inappropriate.
THROTTLEBOTTOM OUT
As this column said a week or so ago,
the whole idea of putting the Vice-Presi-
dent into an administrative job was bad
in principle and in practice. Even a competent Vice-President could not have performed this dual function. And a Vice-
President who had a keen respect for
constitutional traditions would not have
taken administrative responsibilities.
On the political front, the demise of the
B.E.W. means two things: that Mr. Wallace will probably not be renominated
and that the ideology of the New Deal
has suffered a serious setback.
It has been freely rumored that Wallace
was to be dropped from the ticket. The
1944 Democratic convention may have to
swallow a fourth-term nomination, but having done that, the rest of the medicine is
going to be thrown into the nurse’s lap,
and part of the rejected medicine would
be Mr. Wallace, should the President try
to force him once more on an angry convention. So Mr. Wallace had best enjoy
as well as possible his 18 remaining
months as Throttlebottom. There won’t
be any more.
IT’S JUST TOO BAD
Second, the ideological boys have lost
their Gandhi, now that Gandhi has lost
his second garment. He was the ideal and
inspiration of every little world planner
in Washington. They launched their tiny
skiffs in the torrent of his wordy discourse. They burbled their admiration
of his cloudy philosophical exercises.
They spoke in hushed tones of the master’s
mysticism, his delving into Asiatic religious lore. And they snatched at his curious economic ideas like seals seizing their
daily portion of food. All this adulation
must go to the catacombs now, for the
high priest is out of power and New Dealers must follow the President.
Mr. Wallace’s discourses on foreign affairs, whatever his devotees might have
thought, were, like his boomerang-throwing and his earlier discourses on the Constitution, like Shelley’s skylark song, quite
unpremeditated. Which means that there
is nothing in Mr. Wallace’s achievements
or training that justifies the belief that he
knows anything important about the subject. And his book on world affairs proves
it. There are pages and pages telling that
“we” should do this or that after the war,
but there is no indication of who is or
are “we.” Also, after setting forth a mountain of tasks that “we” should do, Mr.
Wallace ventures only two or three sentences telling how those tasks can be
done. He merely indicates that there must
be machinery. The nature of the machinery
is left to our imagination.
Like several other agencies bravely
launched under New Deal skippers, the
activities of the late B.E.W., with assorted
bits of the Jones arsenal, are now safely
in charge of a regular Democrat who no
doubt realizes that Hottentots will not
vote in 1944.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.