Some Explaining
for the C.I.O.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Messrs. Philip Murray, Walter P. Reu-
ther and other C.I.O. dignitaries are going
to have to do a powerful lot of explain-
ing from here in. For one thing, they're
going to have to account for their sneers
at John L. Lewis' recent attack upon
the government, for Lewis, at any rate,
has shown that he can control his union.
And for another, the goings-on in Akron
make their vociferous objections to the
Connally-Smith bill look exceedingly silly.
Obviously, the C.I.O.'s arguments against
that bill have been frivolous and insin-
cere all along. Perhaps the best evidence
of that was Mr. Reuther's demonstration
on the Town Hall of the Air on May 20.
That program was advertised as a debate
on the Connally-Smith bill. Representa-
tive Smith and a respected New York law-
yer, William L. Ransom, were there to
argue for the bill. Walter P. Reuther of
the C.I.O. and Mark Starr of the
I.L.G.W.U. were opposed. But the adver-
tised opponents of the Connally-Smith
bill simply refused to talk about it, and
after an hour of irrelevances punctuated
by sound effects which suggested that the
Town Hall had been jammed full of
C.I.O. partisans the bill itself remained
unscathed.
FUTILE ARGUMENTS
Reuther's speech wandered all over the
premises. He quoted government officials
who opposed the bill on the ground that
voluntary abstention from strikes was
enough. This argument had been destroyed
on the very day that Reuther spoke, of
course, for 25,000 Chrysler employees were
walking out. And on the day following,
Leo LaMotte charged Reuther with hav-
ing fomented that strike.
Mr. Reuther then proceeded to attack
various "trusts," the automobile industry
and Eddie Rickenbacker. He said "
Mr. Rickenbacker has forgotten that the
raft which saved his life and the lives of
his comrades was made by the skilled
hands and loyalty of C.I.O. American
rubber workers." But within the week
50,000 of those same rubber workers were
out striking—not against their employers
but against the N.W.L.B.
Finally, and still without making his
objections specific, Mr. Reuther said that
the Smith-Connally bill would "make for
greater industrial unrest and increased
strikes." Need it be said that we are
now getting the increased strikes with-
out the bill?
Just before Pearl Harbor, Mr. Reuther
made an equally unfair and irrelevant
attack upon the automobile industry. He
charged it with not converting to war
work before the government asked it to
do so, and then proposed a "plan" for
conversion of the industry, which on ex-
amination, proved to be no production
plan at all, but a proposal that the unions
be given a place in the management of
the auto plants.
RENDERED RIDICULOUS
Does anyone now suppose—and that in-
cludes the columnists who gave such rous-
ing support to the Reuther plan—that
the superb production record of the auto-
mobile industry in this war would have
been better had Mr. Reuther helped to
direct it?
Although union labor itself has made
Reuther's whole argument at the Town
Hall ridiculous in the few days since he
spoke, we may expect no less opposition
from labor and the administration to
any sort of law regulating the unions.
The new crisis means either the break-
up of the C.I.O. with an ultimate return
of some of its units to the A.F.L., or the
complete collapse of every government
agency designed to prevent labor stop-
pages, to control prices and to check in-
flation.
The C.I.O. has proved its incapacity as
a responsible labor organization, it now
asks to remain unrestrained by law. No
other person, group or segment of the
population asks that. The President must
now see the rich fruit of what he has
planted in his political garden.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.