Planning Board
Put on Skids
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A smallish but significant symptom on
the new mood of Congress is the application
of the ax by the Appropriations Committee
to the National Resources Planning Board.
The country can not only do very well
without it, but the Appropriations
Committee's action should help crystallize
the public's determination to stop the
spending of public funds for partisan purposes.
The planning board, headed by the president's
uncle, Frederic A. Delano, has from the
beginning been a pet of the White House.
Curiously enough, its members, other than
Delano, have in part been the same professors
who served in the latter years of the Hoover
administration, compiling for the government a
study of "social trends." At that time the
political trend was running so fast toward the
election of 1932 that the huge volumes of
learning that the committee on social trends
produced were all but forgotten. It amassed a
good deal of useful information, but it had
almost no influence on the rapidly developing
New Deal. The planning board, which now
finds itself without funds, might have been the
idea of the President or it might have been
inspired by some of those who became its
members. In either case, it fitted into the
prevailing purpose of planning via bureaucracy.
ALL TOO COMMON
Fifth and sixth wheels were as common in
government as they were on expensive
automobiles in the days when the board was
created. Certainly it was an extravagance—almost
every conceivable fact-gathering job was
already being done by government departments
and bureaus anyhow. Millions were being used
to burrow into every corner, public and private,
and to print the results thereof. But apparently
the planning board was not only to dig into
facts, but to buttress certain policies. And that
is the realm of controversial politics.
The taxpayers' money is properly spent in the
gathering and presentation of facts which are
so ample and impartial that they can be used
by all citizens in proposing policies and in
arguing for them. But when the field of
controversial policy or politics is reached in a
democracy, those who wish to participate in
the scuffle should do it on their own. The costs
of propagating controversial ideas should either
be borne by privately financed associations or,
in the case of public officials, by themselves.
Conscientious Congressmen recognize that
principle when they send but reprints from the
"Record" carefully labeled "not printed at
government expense." The New Deal, however,
has helped the government get a long way from
that ideal. The public purse is liberally scooped
up to document, print and propagate all manner
of theories, ideas, plans and policies which are
certainly controversial, since they run counter to
the views of many, perhaps, in many instances,
a majority of our fellow taxpayers.
SUPPORTED BY EVERYBODY
It is part of the ideal of a university that it
may support all sorts of ideas in the interest of
the pursuit of truth—it can and should pursue
truth even by the rocky road of controversy. But
the Federal government is not a university—a
fact which the President has never sufficiently
grasped. Government is supported by everybody.
It should serve everybody. The Federal
government does not exist to educate our
youngsters. It is headed by politicians whose
interest is getting votes. To permit it to gather
facts and also interpret those facts to suit its
interests is to give one side of every disputed
policy an insuperable advantage. It is to take
the road to a one-party system and, as such, a
serious impairment of democracy. The National
Resources Planning Board has published a lot of
material, much of which could have been better
and more appropriately provided by private
bodies. It has published much material of very
doubtful usefulness and, as Representative
Smith said the other day, it has published some
material in the vein of "the special pleader and
political propagandist." In this country, if we
preserve the elements of free discussion, a good
idea gets over. There are plenty of means of
disseminating ideas and arguing for policies.
Mr. Beardsley Ruml has demonstrated that with
his tax plan. When a man with ideas asks for a
government appropriation and a tax-supported
bureau to put them across, there must be grave
weaknesses in those ideas. The future will be
safe enough without the National Resources
Planning Board.
Copyright 1945 Journal of Commerce Sunday
I WOULDN'T
CHANCE IT'S
BUDDY!
Ceiling zero
Montreal Star
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.