Same Platform
for Both Parties?

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Whereas, Bud Kelland, Republican Na-
tional Committeeman of Arizona, has pro-
posed that the two major parties adopt
an identical platform statement on for-
eign relations for 1944, thus confining the
campaign to domestic issues, the task re-
mains to put such a statement in words.
And whereas this commentator is inter-
ested in a campaign replete with har-
mony, he presents herewith a proposed
draft of such a joint statement, appropri-
ately embellished with words befitting
the high contracting parties:
"The parties of this covenant are the
Democratic party, more recently known
by the initials F.D.R., which shall herein
be designated as 'party of the first
part,' and the Republican party, popular-
ly known as 'You Republicans,' a title
conferred by the late candidate of said
party, Wendell Willkie, which shall here-
in be designated as 'party of the second
part.'
"The high contracting parties do cove-
nant and agree as follows:
"That party of the first part shall re-
frain from all and sundry derogatory
characterizations of the party of the sec-
ond part, including the terms 'isolationist,'
'ostrich,' 'turtle' and 'poltroon,' and will,
to the best of its ability, restrain such
quasi heirs, assigns and associates as Har-
old Ickes, Henry Wallace and Charles
Michelson from the use of such character-
izations. That it will likewise desist from
comments on international trade and
tariff matters which attribute to friends
of said tariff qualities appropriate to
low forms of animal life, such as 'blood-
suckers,' 'vultures,' and 'wolves.'
"That party of the first part shall re-
frain from reminding the voters that
from the moment Hitler began to arm,
it saw the inevitability of war, and party
of the second part shall refrain from
reminding the voters that since party of
the first part saw it as inevitable, it
should have done more to prepare there-
for.
"That party of the second part shall
refrain from suggesting that a Demo-
cratic President created a League of Na-
tions in 1919 which, after the death of
said President, the Democratic party failed
to indorse in its party platforms. Party
of the second part shall, moreover, re-
frain from mentioning the action of one
Grover Cleveland (known as a Democrat
but not to be confused with so-called
'Bryan Democrats.') who, on a certain
occasion, did twist and otherwise maim
the tail of the British lion, more hap-
pily known as our ally and associate.
"That the peace-loving proclivities of the
10-year titular head of the Democratic
party, better known as the 'Peerless
Leader,' shall not be mentioned.
"That party of the first part shall re-
frain from mentioning the action of party
of the second part in acquiring the Philip-
pines and sundry Pacific islands which,
over a period of 43 years, neither party
made provision for holding in the event
of a war with Japan. Moreover, that no
quotation or attribution of terms such as
'imperialist,' once freely used by spokes-
man of party of the first part, shall be
made by party of the second part.
"That both parties to this agreement
shall refrain from reference to any sug-
gestions of an isolationist character made
by either candidate in 1940.
"That since this agreement excludes,
by mutual consent, all mention of any part
of the world not subject to the jurisdic-
tion of the United States, the Presidential
campaign of 1944 shall be held on the
high plane of domestic issues. By way
of clarifying said subjects of debate, they
are hereby defined as follows:
"That party of the first part shall affirm
that it is the exclusive custodian of the
humane sentiments of the American peo-
ple and that it rescued said people from
a devilish conspiracy intent upon ruin,
disease and death.
"That party of the second part shall
affirm that party of the first part is a
conspiracy to liquidate the nation, social-
ize property and children, destroy do-
mestic animals and substitute for the Con-
stitution the Communist manifesto."
While Mr. Kelland did not suggest it,
further provision might be made to the
effect that no speech, statement, publica-
tion or dramatic performance designed
to influence voters shall issue during the
campaign from either party. This would
further promote economy, quietude and
national unity.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of Com-
merce Syndicate

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.