Really Rough Fight Coming Up Now
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The gong has sounded on the first round
of what promises to be one of the rough-
est, toughest fights that Washington has
seen in many a season. The President
has directed the Army, Navy and Budget
Bureau not to submit Information and
documents requested by the House com-
mittee Investigating the Federal Com-
munications Commission. Nor will the
officers of the services requested by the
committee be permitted to appear.
This act of the President conforms to
the Queensberry rules concerning execu-
tive-legislative relations. Even in time of
peace, and in matters unrelated to the
military or to foreign relations, the Pres-
ident's "Incompatible with the public in-
terest" has seemed to be final.
COLORFUL FIGURES
The personalities involved in this in-
quiry are colorful enough to guarantee the
violent nature of the fighting ahead. If
anyone who knows "Gene" Cox has found
anything of which the chairman is afraid,
the matter is not on record. He is full
of fire and brimstone and, a former judge,
is skilled in the law. He yielded first blood
in the encounter, for we have been told
of an alleged fee received by him for
some matter relating to a radio station.
The Cox answer is that he gave the money
to charity and that it is irrelevant, imma-
terial, unrelated and extraneous to the
inquiry, anyhow.
The other "Gene," Mr. Garey, counsel
for the committee, has fire that burns
with equal heat. He, too, is an able law-
yer. A wholly unrelated but interesting
fact is that the President's son, Franklin
Jr., after his graduation from law
school, served for a time in Garey's office.
The versatility of Mr. Fly, chairman
of the F.C.C., is shown by the many mat-
ters in which his commission has con-
cerned itself these past few years.
It is not too much to say that the radio
companies have, under the necessity of
representing their interests before the
F.C.C., been one of the largest employers
of legal talent in the nation.
IT WILL BE HOT NOW
This immediate phase of the investiga-
tion has plunged almost directly into mili-
tary and naval intelligence. It seems that
the F.C.C. acquired large concern with
the radio intelligence of the armed forces.
That the Army and Navy were not en-
tirely happy is shown by an exhibit, pre-
sented by Mr. Garey, of a letter written
In February by Admiral William D. Leahy,
chief of staff to the Commander-in-Chief,
to the Secretaries of War and Navy, sug-
gesting that they ask the President to
turn over to the Army and Navy all radio
intelligence activities now performed by
the F.C.C. The two Secretaries so request-
ed the President.
The President did not do so. Mr. Garey
thereupon prepared letters to the two Sec-
retaries, asking for the appearance before
the committee of certain of their officers
and the production of certain documents.
That has now been refused.
The course of the inquiry from here
on will be highlighted by the production
of testimony already taken in private hear-
ings, the presentation of documents, let-
ters and the like from the files of the
commission, and the appearance of many
witnesses not restricted by the President's
prohibition.
The proceedings will be tumultuous,
however, and the Donnybrook Fair tech-
nique will prevail, which, according to
Gaelic lore, was "hit the heads you see."
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.