Can the Cosmic
Planners Do It?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The practical certainty that the President will shortly present to Congress a
so-called American Beveridge plan formulated by the National Resources Planning
Board, together with Social Security Board suggestions for an enlarged social
insurance system, gives this writer for one the feeling that maybe we'd better
leave the whole sordid question of money—the wherewithal to pay for the "cradle-
to-the-grave" security Washington's so excited about just now—to the administration's
cosmic planners. Certainly no one with a less expansive spirit will have the
courage to grapple with that embarrassing problem.
The average citizen after he had struggled with the immensities of the President's
budget no doubt turned to editorials and columns for help—there he found that the
experts are having an unavailing struggle, too. No one, outside Washington, can get
this great loaf into a mental slicing machine and turn it into edible pieces for the
table. But maybe the administration's planning boys can.
MAYBE THEY CAN—
Maybe they can figure out how to mesh "cradle-to-the-grave" security with the
thrift and protective appeals of the war savings campaign, for instance. Maybe
they can dope out a way to interest people before whose eyes the promise of life-
time protection against every conceivable sort of hazard is being dangled in saving
money and voluntarily buying more government bonds.
They've got imagination, these boys—lots of it. So perhaps they'll tell us how
to extend old-age and survivors insurance coverage to agricultural workers, domes-
tic servants and employees of nonprofit institutions at the same time that we provide
for putting Europe, Africa, the Indies and the Philippines on their feet.
Maybe they'll know how to find the dough to refund a quantity of enforced
saving after the war—which is one of their many proposals—while we expand
current programs of assistance to youth, the handicapped, the unemployed and the
aged.
In any economic recession after the war, of course, the chances are pretty
good that millions of people would cash in their Treasury bonds. The government
would then be confronted by the necessity of very heavy refunding, on top of
the proposed refunding of enforced savings. This would coincide with a steadily
rising deficit. But the planning boys should be smart enough to dig up the
cash to swing all this.
All this, and heaven too, as a matter of fact—paying the admission fee to heaven,
in this case, will naturally involve finding billions more for the extension of Social
Security benefits before anything much has been collected in the way of assessments—
these assessments having been used as general revenue to help pay for the war. It will
also involve, obviously, seeing that no depressions strike.
A MILCH COW?
Already the government is borrowing not only from the banks but, in addition,
from the Federal Reserve. The gigantic excursions into postwar largess the
planners are talking about—the expenditures for feeding the world while we also
provide a fabulous expansion of Social Security benefits within the United
States—promise not only to turn the Federal Reserve into the Wallace milch cow
in a big way, but to transform it into an international goat. But be assured that
if anyone can do that, the planners can.
Remember that maybe there won't be a financially awkward postwar recession,
or, if suppositions are in order, maybe there won't even be a clearly defined
postwar era. Maybe we can't expect the war to end all at once. It may even be
that people who are all-out for total war (and who isn't?) are making a mistake
in thinking peace will be just as total and just as coincidental. The word may be
partly "post" and partly "war." We could be making peace with one hand and war
with the other.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
The Inclusive American
Houston Post
The American welcomes light from any source. He is debtor to Hebrew, to Greek,
to Roman and to barbarian. He wants the best. He dotes on Shakespeare. He almost
worships Michelangelo. He pays tribute to Beethoven. He shakes hands with
Lafayette. He finds in the Psalms great inspiration. He brothers every man
who worships at the Shrine of Freedom.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.