Have You Read
the Obituaries?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When, as in the past few days, editors
prepare a sizable number of obituaries of
New Deal agencies, there is a strong pre-
sumption that those agencies have been
stricken by a common disease. True, most
of them were felled by Congress, but that
is like saying that most sick people die in
bed. It doesn't tell us what illness afflicted
them when they came under Congres-
sional scrutiny.
The National Resources Planning Board
was a long time dying before the Senate
finished it off. At the beginning it was
presumably concerned with mobilizing
facts about the nation's natural resources
On occasion it even published material of
that kind. But, ultimately, it seemed to
weary of ores, water, soil, rivers and
mountains, and it wandered into the field
of business, finance and social security. It
became a generalized busybody. And
when it did, down came the ax.
AND THE O.P.A.—
The O.P.A. was organized to prevent in-
flation; but under Mr. Henderson, a flock
of assorted reformers got on its pay roll—
reformers who were far from qualified to
deal with markets and prices. They were
of the vague do-gooder sort. They were,
in short, individuals who, because they
cannot do anything well, think they can
do everything well.
Presently the O.P.A. got to doing a lot
of things other than price control. Harold
L. Allen, counsel for the special House
committee investigating the executive
agencies, stated in the record the other
day that an examination of the confiden-
tial files of David Ginsburg, former gen-
eral counsel for the O.P.A., showed that
agency—"distorting the intent and purpose
of Congress, as expressed in the Price
Control Act, using the price-fixing mecha-
nism to control profits and redistribute
them instead of using them to prevent
inflation.”
THE O.W.I.’S BLUNDERS
Then came the O.W.I. There is much to
be said for the job Elmer Davis did in
pulling together the muddled confusion of
agencies he inherited. With the foreign
activities of the O.W.I. Congress has been
sympathetic. But the House, by an over-
whelming vote, has disapproved the do-
mestic part of it. That may be because,
since the poetic Mr. MacLeish organized
the Office of Facts and Figures, bureau-
crats have been giving us less of facts and
figures and more of generalized advice on
what and how to think, feel and talk.
Mr. Davis, despite his many good acts,
has been disposed to talk down to us a
great deal. Most recently, he took occa-
sion to tell Washington newspapermen
what and what not to tell their readers.
It was a pretty gratuitous crack. At any
rate, the House has told him to peddle his
papers among the Italians and the Berbers
and the Slovaks, and to let us alone.
After all, the morale of the American
people has now survived 18 months of
war and is doing nicely, thank you. The
war is probably more than half done. We
can struggle along the rest of the way if
the press remains free, and if Washington
gives the press the facts.
THE COMMON TROUBLE
What is the common trouble with all
these agencies? It is the simple fact that
when they fail to mind their own busi-
ness they get into difficulties. A long-
standing distinction exists in government
between policy-making and policy-exe-
cuting agencies and officials. Newcomers
to Washington fail to get that distinction.
Minor clerks and officials, newly arrived,
rush into policy-making at once. Policy
talk buzzes on streetcars, at cocktail
parties and in hot and crowded boarding
houses. Meanwhile, a vast army of faith-
ful civil servants go on from year to year,
get their appropriations from Congress
and never get attacked on the floors or in
the press. They don’t because they know
how to mind their own business.
Congress makes policy in this country.
That’s something bureaucrats must learn
or there will be many more official
obituaries.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.