Hoover-Gibson,
and Lippmann
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The hope grows that there may be much
clearer thinking among Americans on the
problems of lasting peace than there was
in the years from 1918 to 1921. Further
nourishment for that hope appears in
some current articles in Collier's maga-
zine by Herbert Hoover and Hugh Gibson,
and also in Walter Lippmann's little book,
"United States Foreign Policy."
All three men are veterans of the Ver-
sailles peacemaking: Hoover was a major
Wilson aide with misgivings which, when
expressed to Wilson, cost him the friend-
ship of his imperious boss. Gibson was a
capable young career diplomat. Lippmann
had helped Col. House with preparations
for peace. All agree that hate, greed and
pigheadedness turned that Olympian coun-
cil into a tipsy hell of gambling. This,
they say, must not happen again.
DIFFERENT BASES
Lippmann's intellectual interests, expe-
rience and knowledge made his plea re-
solve itself into an appeal for an "Atlantic
system" cemented by a United States-
British alliance. He argues this with every
scrap of persuasive evidence—good and
bad alike—that he can muster. Of the
Pacific, he speaks with detachment and
with no great conviction. His "two-party"
alliance he would develop into a "nuclear"
alliance with Russia and, ultimately, China
—when China is ready.
The Hoover-Gibson thesis develops from
a different basis. These men sketch at
the outset those factors in civilization
which promote war and those which favor
peace. They take a look at our own po-
sition and, recognizing the value of our
present association with Great Britain,
Russia and China, propose that the peace
be based upon the great continental power
of these nations through regional councils.
The Lippmann book shows a tendency
to cross narrow and very shaky bridges
when the author marshals his history to
support his thesis. For example, in dis-
cussing the flagrant violation of the Mon-
roe Doctrine by France in the Civil War,
he says that we could not have evicted
Maximilian and his French army had Eng-
land helped France. This is arrant non-
sense, offensive to any American who
knows his history. Grant, when Seward
made his demand on Napoleon III, had a
million of the best-trained, most experi-
enced troops in the world. No power, or
combination of powers, could have re-
sisted them successfully.
FINAL CONCLUSIONS
Mr. Lippmann by-passes reality at an-
other point. He claims that when Wilson
called for war in 1917, he was acting in
consequence of our "century-old American
policy of permitting Great Britain to pro-
tect us from Europe. Mr. Lippmann ad-
mits that Wilson did not say so when he
called for war. But he offers the amazing
proof of his contention in the form of a
quotation from something Mr. Lippmann
himself wrote at the time. This may
prove that Mr. Lippmann's reasons for
going to war in 1917 were better than Mr.
Wilson's, but it does not prove that Mr.
Lippmann's reasons were Mr. Wilson's
reasons. Congress had a better reason
than either one. It declared a state of
war because Germany had made war on
us. That is how most Americans sized up
the situation in 1917, I believe. Certainly,
it is what they believe of this more im-
mediate war.
Despite Mr. Lippmann's curious writing
of history, however, his final conclusion
approximates that of Messrs. Hoover and
Gibson. The history of the next genera-
tion depends upon how successfully the
United States, Great Britain, Russia and
China work together.
The Hoover-Gibson proposal of regional
councils, following the line of Churchill's
March speech, fits American interests and
thinking vastly better than wholesale com-
mitments through over-all alliances.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.