'Government by Letterhead'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
No one should waste time sympathizing with the angry Senators who are emitting howls of anguish over the attaching of their names to a paid advertisement protesting against the decisions of the recent Bermuda conference on refugees.
The issues raised by the ad are completely transcended by the particular issue of what a public man should or should not do with his name. For if these indignant Senators had not lent their names to an organization in the first place, their names would not have been used or misused.
Grant that the cause advocated by the organization sponsoring the ad may be good. Grant also that any Senator, as an individual, has the right to express his opinion about any cause, issue, principle or what-not. The question is whether he should lend his name, with others, to be used by any organization, committee or movement.
And this question has to do not only with Senators, but with every person whose name has public significance, be he public official, journalist, professor, minister or business executive. The papers are constantly turning up indignant protests by some innocent who has permitted his name to be used on a letterhead and, after forgetting all about the loan, has found his name used for the advocacy of some cause or action of which he wholly disapproves.
AN OLD PRACTICE
There is no disposition here to point the finger at anyone, but every intelligent person knows that one of the primary purposes of lending names indiscriminately is to gain a little publicity, usually free, by their use. The practice of round-robining is very old. It has achieved many useful things. It has also been abused. In Sinclair Lewis' book, "Gideon Planish," the hero actually started his toilsome journey to prominence by getting his name on letterheads of one sort or another. He was not required to do or give anything for this advantage. He did not toil and neither did he spin for the organization on whose boards or committees he ostensibly served. He simply lent his name and, when it acquired sheen from rubbing against better names, it slipped on to tonier things.
It has always been a belief in this corner that a round robin of professors, for instance, is a paradox. A professor is given academic freedom in order that, as an individual, he may, by thought or research, find a truth that he can pass on to the world. This is an individual, personal privilege and the truth it helps him find is his own, to be accepted or rejected. But when he and other professors organize and add names to names, he is surrendering his personal views to a merged and usually compromised view. Truth is not a matter of counting signatures. The justice of a cause is not determined mathematically by the number of those who believe in it.
NOT FOR LENDING
What is a name anyhow—notably a Senator's name? It is in part what the person who bears it has made it; in part, what the voters have given it. And voters give the toga to be worn in the toil of legislative labor, not to be lent, willy-nilly, to others to use to dress up causes, however worthy.
Lest there be any misunderstanding, let it be in the record here that the writer believes that the contention made by the committee in the ad had merit. But there is no merit in the bitter complaint of those Senators who are mad about the use of their names. If they had been more chary of their use to begin with, there would be nothing to protest about now. And the same principle applies to the lending of names by many, many others who have become old and rather tiresome fixtures on almost all the letters of exhortation the morning mail turns up.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.