A Tip for Chaplin's Next Film
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
With the flamboyantly colorful aspects
of Charles Chaplin's recent publicity this
column has no concern. The personal, not
to say intimate, concerns of human life
are in the domain of more expert commentators and social craftsmen. This
writer labors in the more barren vineyards of politics and economics. But since
Mr. Chaplin belongs to a school of art
which, unlike that of Shakespeare, is not
content merely to hold the mirror up to
nature, but also advocates political and
economic reform, the all-time career of
Mr. Chaplin belongs to a school of art
for reflection in the broad wastes of political economy.
Our story opens in the London music
halls, with Charlie Chaplin as a wistful
figure. Next, this little man came west,
presumably in search of opportunity. A
new and highly competitive industry
found room for him and his genius was
crowned with great success. That was
because the United States is a nation
which is not the enemy of personal
ability.
EQUALITY FOUND
The material fruits of Mr. Chaplin's
incomparable art were dollars—millions
of them—poured out in a free market
place by free citizens who had money
to spend. A free political and economic
system guarded these dollars in their
route from those who spent them to the
man who earned them. No bureaucrat
dictated Chaplin's choice of a profession.
That is the American system of free enterprise at work.
When his dollars mounted to a fortune, Charles Chaplin was free to spend
them as he wished. No commissar interfered with his free choice. No discriminating and capricious tax collector exacted
unfair tribute. Chaplin and his money
found equality under the law—a law created in accordance with the forms of a
free republic by representatives of the
people.
No government edict or law compelled
him to renounce his foreign allegiance.
When and where he chose to become a
citizen of the country in which he found
it so profitable to live were left entirely
to his own discretion. And, citizen or
not, he was entitled to the protection of
the law. That is deep in the American
tradition.
As an artist he was at liberty to write
and produce what he chose. The nation
had no censor and for 20 years no State
has enacted a motion-picture censorship
law. What appears in Chaplin's pictures
depends mostly upon his good taste, guided by a self-adopted and self-operating
regulation by the industry that made
wealth and fame possible for him. That
is the way of the United States with the
arts.
As a man of wealth and prominence,
Chaplin suffered unavoidable embarrassments. But he enjoyed the assurance always that on such occasions he lived under the great shield of the laws and traditions of justice intended to protect him
without discrimination. Those laws and
traditions of justice are an inseparable
part of this republic.
Even at such a moment as this in his
life, he can feel the assurance that it is
possible for him to follow the calm and
agreeable pursuits of personal peace, secure in the belief that American justice
will protect his legitimate interests.
All this at the hands of a political and
economic system that Socialists denounce
as oppressive, outworn and ridden with
exploitation. All this and more, because
if Mr. Chaplin chooses to believe in and
advocate socialism, the American system
will protect him in his advocacy, too.
A CLIMAXING PICTURE?
This government has never interfered
with Mr. Chaplin's political views. If he
chose, because the soul of an artist
moves through the world shrouded in
the morning mists of youth, to hold
youthful views of making over America,
no harsh authority stripped away those
clouds.
When he chose in his picture, "Modern
Times," to portray mass production as
an evil, America laughed and paid him
for laughing. A satire of the supposedly
blighted life of the robots on the production line, now, would be even more amusing, for the robot is drawing down $100
a week. There is even a kind of irony
in the fact that the robot's work on the
production line is destroying the dictator whom Chaplin portrayed not long
after his "Modern Times." America can
stand lots of criticism. It even has a
pleasant name for it—"kidding."
But is it too much to hope that in the
many mellow years that lie ahead for
him Mr. Chaplin will begin pondering
his career, or that he will give us, with
a tender touch of autobiography, a great
climactic picture based on it? We venture to suggest a title, "What's Right
With the United States?" Charlie ought
to know if anybody does.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Bradicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.