State Capitalism
After the War
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Those who discount the postwar appeal
of the program for wide-scale govern-
ment "partnership" in industry, set
forth in the recent report of the National
Resources Planning Board, are curiously
shortsighted. For these proposals for
state capitalism-whether they are uti-
lized in a campaign for a fourth term,
or in an effort to create a new society
in America-present a political oppor-
tunity made to order for any group that
wants to exploit the fears of those work-
ing in the war industries or in the armed
services.
The longer the war lasts, the larger
the number of people whose work will
be changed in one manner or another
when it is over. Begin with 11,000,000 or
more returning soldiers and sailors. Add
to that the millions in war work. These
latter include many who will take the
first opportunity to go back to what they
were doing before they went into the
factory. But the majority will still re-
main. They are working today on some-
thing they will not be doing many months
after the fighting stops.
ΟΡΕΝ ΤΟ APPEALS
Even though most war plants will shift
as rapidly as possible to their regular
lines of production, it will be easy to
arouse the apprehensions of their em-
ployees. They will know that their old
associates who are now in the services
will have a prior claim to jobs. All those
who have never held industrial jobs be-
fore, but want to keep them, will be
open to the appeal of almost anything
which holds a promise of guaranteeing
"Jobs for all."
To most of them it may make no dif-
ference whether the proposal offered
them calls for temporary or permanent
mixed corporations of government and
private capital or whether these mixed
corporations follow the model which Ger-
many carried farthest in its organization
of industry between the wars. The prom-
ise to guarantee jobs may be enough, de-
spite the arguments that active govern-
ment participation will slow down in-
dustrial decisions, frighten private capi-
tal out of trying to compete with com-
panies partly government owned, and
generally dampen down the free enter-
prise system.
The setup for a program like that of
the planning board will also be present
on the physical side in the existence of
more than $13,000,000,000 worth of plant
-the newest and, in many instances, the
best arranged plant in America-con-
trolled by the government. Everybody
will admit that some degree of govern-
ment participation will be required in
the period when this plant is being liq-
uidated. But it now becomes evident
that the planning board expects the gov-
ernment to retain a large interest, per-
haps the main interest, in operating
these factories. If private capital is not
immediately ready to operate them--and
contract renegotiation and taxes will hold
down the amount of capital which can
be assembled for such purposes-many
a city may welcome a proposal of this
sort.
THE BIG DANGER
We may even get out of it what has
been called "chamber of commerce so-
cialism," every local organization of busi-
nessmen seeking at whatever sacrifice of
their ideas of the proper relationship of
government and private enterprise to get
government aid in keeping the plant
open. Civic committees, undoubtedly as-
signed by union labor organizations,
would spring up in cities which have
government-owned plants larger than any-
thing else in their districts. The destiny
of government-owned plants, plus a pro-
gram for production for employment,
could provide enough arguments for sev-
eral national campaigns.
Industry will have much to offer in op-
position to such a program. Many a com-
pany is drawing up its own plans for
returning to the arts of peace. The Com-
mittee for Economic Development has
been formed to assist business and indus-
try in making their full contribution to
the restoration of civilian prosperity. Its
members, led by Chairman Paul G. Hoff-
man of Studebaker, realize that a high
level of employment must be restored
quickly, and that this is the toughest as-
signment commerce and industry ever
tackled.
The work of private enterprisers and
of the committee can actually be inter-
fered with, even sabotaged, by a too-
vigorous promotion of ideas advanced in
the planning board's report.
Copyright, 1943. Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.