An Age Limit
in Congress Jobs?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
If the Republican party wants to present a refreshing new order of things in
government, It might well include a pledge
to streamline Congress. Our national legislature in a good one. It is a firm bul-
wark against the trend of autocracy that
has swept other countries. But it needs
some vital repairs.
The first has to do with its committee
system—especially that of the House of
Representatives, where committees are
all-powerful. No one can change that, since
the House is large and heterogeneous. But
there is certainly one fact not irrelevant
in any consideration of Congressional repair
work. Unpleasant to mention and
probably very distasteful to the excellent
gentlemen in question, it is the ages of the
chairmen of the major House committees.
RETIREMENT FOR AGE?
Let us take a look at the facts. The 12
most important committees of the House
are: Agriculture, Appropriations, Banking
and Currency, Foreign Affairs, Interstate
Commerce, Judiciary, Labor, Military Affairs,
Naval Affairs, Rivers and Harbors,
Rules, and Ways and Means. Here are 12
committees of which the chairmen are
in a very real sense directing heads. The
average age of these 12 chairmen is
slightly under 71. Two are over 80. Four
are over 70. Ten will be 70 or more in
1915.
The sober question is whether there
should be a retirement age for committee
chairmen, as there is in other lines of
human endeavor. If, as the President said
so freely in 1937, a judge should be retired at a
certain age, the argument for
retiring committee chairmen is even more
persuasive.
A Federal judge is free of the big job
faced by all Congressmen, which is keeping
in active politics, with all the strain
incident thereto. The chairmanship of a
committee is a strenuous job, involving
administering an office force, managing
members, calling witnesses, presiding at
hearings and presenting legislation to the
House. This, it is respectfully submitted,
is scarcely a job for a man of 70. Never
mind the exceptions: they are notable
and deserve honors. But the rule should
require more vitality, more freedom from
vested interest and more receptivity to
new ideas.
ONE WAY TO HELP
There are several ways to achieve a revitalization of committees. One is to break
the seniority rule. This would be undesirable, because it would open the way
to an incredible amount of logrolling. Another is to retire chairmen from their
chairmanship at a fixed age, say 65.
In the present House, and assuming
Democratic control, that would mean the
retirement in 1915 of 11 of the 12 chairmen
now sitting in the most important
committees. The venerable retirees could
remain in the House as long as the voters
continued them and they could remain
on their favorite committees to guide,
counsel and befriend.
Still, another way would be to elect a
Republican Congress. That would mean,
assuming that the present 12 ranking Republicans remain, an average age in 1915
of about 62. But they, too, will age, and
so, perhaps the best of plans is to change
the rules now for all future time.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Name for the Midgets
New York Sun
The talent of the fighting man for inventing incongruous names for the tools
of his trade is illustrated anew by the
name which the British manning the
midget submarines have given their craft.
Nat A. Barrows reveals in the Boston
Globe that they call them “tiddlers.” According to the Oxford dictionary “tiddler”
is a nursery name for a small minnow or
stickleback. The venture into Alten
fjord to torpedo the German battleship
Tirpitz, the first known action of the British
midget submarines, was about as far
removed from the atmosphere of the
nursery as possible. Other exploits of the
two-man submarines will be equally violent and
may be even more hazardous,
yet the name of “tiddler” doubtless will
stick. It has just that touch of inspired
inaccuracy and affectionate disregard for
the facts that characterizes the fighting
man when he turns dictionary maker.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.