Outlook in Europe
More Hopeful
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When Hitler struck down Czechoslo
vakla, he shouted contemptuously in his
Sportpalast, "There is Benes. Here am I.
Let us see which of us is here tomor
row." It begins to look as if Benes is
going to be here tomorrow. Certainly,
the nation of which Benes is head faces
a brighter prospect than at any time since
the breakup of the Austrian empire In
1018.
Two exceedingly hopeful signs appear
in the Stalin-Benes treaty of alliance.
The first is that the Czechoslovakian
position under this arrangement is infinite-
ly more secure than it was after Ver-
sailles. Then, the little state was depend-
ent upon France for support against a
vastly more powerful Germany. Protec-
tion through remote control proved a
dangerous delusion. Prague is 500 miles
from Paris, and Prague is 300 miles from
Hamburg, which was its precarious out-
let to the sea.
The nation's instability was further ac-
centuated by its make-up. Of the 13,500,000
people in Czechoslovakia, only 7,000,000
to 8,000,000 were Czechs. The Slovaks
were a heavy burden to carry and, when
Hitler entered the picture, they sudden-
ly discovered their "separate" nationality
and began their Jewish persecutions.
The Sudeten Germans, 1,500,000 strong,
had never, prior to Munich, entertained
any special love for their German neigh-
bors. Logic, geography, history and eth-
nology all point to the desirability of
the tie to Russia that the new Stalin-
Benes agreement embodies.
The alliance, moreover, does more to
reassure those who doubted the inten-
tions of Russia than anything else that
has happened. Russia wants no Eastern
European federation and no artificial
buffer states. But a chain of alliances
in which Russia is a senior member seems
to be in order.
This shows not only the desire of Rus-
sia to maintain the individual character
of her neighbors to the west, but her
definite feeling of responsibility for other
Slavic states. Call this Pan-Slavism, if
you wish.
The current suggestion that Poland
might become a third party to some such
arrangement is also hopeful. If the Poles
are wise they will welcome this gesture
in their direction. The shape to come of
Europe begins to appear and, mercifully,
it holds no terrors to those who want
stability in a part of the world which
has spawned so many wars.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Would It Not Be Fine
If---
1—We had a national sales tax, even
if money lenders and merchants would
be offended?
2—Our O.P.A. had enough horse sense
to make oil production profitable?
3—Our government, the largest busi-
ness on earth, could be operated on a
business basis by businessmen?
4—Brains were a requisite for member-
ship on our W.L.B.?
5—Our government had the courage
to banish Bridges and his ilk?
6—Congress and the States would rise
on their hind legs and insist upon, and
secure, the return to them of their pre-
rogatives and rights as granted by our
Constitution?
7—Our Supreme Court would base its
decrees upon law and justice, rather than
upon political expediency?
8—The perennial campaigns of our
leading political parties were confined to
constructive and corrective programs in-
stead of unjust criticism, innuendo and
baseless promises?
9—Our national administration would
make a start in a big reduction of need-
less pay rolls by dropping the silly idea
of subsidies?
10—We could establish in some cen-
trally located small city a college wisely
administered, devoted to teaching of the
science of democratic government? Why
not? We have business colleges, medical
colleges, agricultural colleges. Few of
our officeholders ever learn anything ex-
cept politics, the science of getting the
job.
11—Our administration would take a
stand fair to labor, fair to the public on
the racketeer element in labor unions?
12—We were sufficiently interested in
our government to send qualified, patri-
otic men to represent us in Congress?
In the final analysis, it is up to us!
JOHN W. POST.
Suggestion
St. Petersburg Times
"The man at the next desk suggests the
critics, instead of picking the 10 top films
of the year, ought to select the best dou-
ble feature.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.