'Funny Figures'
Used in Food Fray
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It would take a cartoon to make clear
some of the wizardry behind the figures
used by Mr. Bowles and other administra-
tion leaders in fighting the Congressional
ban on food subsidies.
Take, for example, their claim that the
ban would, if enacted and sustained, add
$15,000,000,000 to the cost of the war
through higher prices and rents and
through an increase in the national debt.
Clearly, this figure cannot be intended to
describe or prophesy accurately increases
in food prices because if we take the estimated 7 per cent by which, according to
Mr. Bowles, the price of food will rise
if the ban on subsidies sticks, it becomes
obvious that less than $3,000,000,000 is
involved, since our national food bill is
$10,000,000,000. But presumably, the $15,-
000,000,000 calculation made by the proponents of subsidies takes into account
a great many consequences of prior decisions and neglects for which the administration, rather than Congress, is responsible. It must take into account wage
increases like that given to John L. Lewis,
and to the railroad workers, in which cost
of living has no part. Does anyone believe that Mr. Lewis received 1 cent less
because meat had been "rolled back" 3
cents?
WASTE OF FEED
It must take account of subsidies paid
at both ends of the meat line, each of
which is related to the other. We apparently must pay subsidies in buying quantities of pork to prevent it from becoming too cheap and then pay more subsidies to the processor to make meat
cheaper for the consumer.
And we have this claim of $15,000,000,000
coming from a government which, in
paying a subsidy on the processing of
meat, caused the farmer to withhold his
animals from the market and keep them
on the farm where they consume more
and more of our national supply of feed.
No country other than ours could have
stood such a waste of feed as this involved.
Look at it another way. We are asked
to approve rollback subsidies to prevent
wage increases, when wage increases in
manufacturing industries have already
outrun cost of living increases two-fold.
That inflation is, in considerable part,
a psychological, rather than an economic,
problem has been pointed out by many
people for a long time. The House Ways
and Means Committee has just confirmed
this fact itself and has suggested that the
government can keep people from getting
scared by making a show of economy.
A BAD EXAMPLE
For several years this administration
has laid enough economic eggs to produce
tremendous inflation. But the public has
persistently refused to "set" on those eggs
long enough to hatch them. It has largely
refrained from panic buying and has continued to save the money.
But in this subsidy fight, the government is making enough wild statements
to destroy this solid bank of common
sense. And if, as good observers point out,
a sizable part of the current Christmas
shopping consists of people buying presents for themselves, a major part of the
blame must rest on the exponents of subsidies. For to crown the matter, the same
government which frowns upon scare advertising by merchants is providing scare
headlines itself—headlines based on dubious statistics and admirably suited to
create the very inflation which it professes
to be trying to prevent.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.