Quick-Lunch Pay
Idea Wins Praise
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Whatever may be said of the Ickes-
Lewis quick-lunch-for-miners agreement,
it does contain one important concession
to sound principle. It recognizes that in-
creases in wages ought to be based upon
more work per man. Of course, it is
doubtful if the shortening of the lunch
period will produce the amount of addi-
tional coal that is claimed, but it will
produce something, and the fractional
part of the total increase in pay has a
justification which is not based upon mat-
ters wholly extraneous to work.
If the administration could conceiv-
ably follow the Ickes lead and get back
to the principle of more wages for more
work, the end of the war might emerge.
The present urgency of labor demands
and the fantastic grounds upon which
many of the claims are based must be
due to the fear of a sudden collapse of
Germany. In no other circumstances
could so many doubtful demands be
made.
COST OF LIVING INDEX
Take the demand for a new cost of
living index, for example. The claim that
present measurements of living costs by
government statistical agencies are wrong
has prompted the President to demand
a new index. So the statisticians plunge
into their figures. It will be good to have
a new and dependable index, but it is
certain that what they develop will be
disappointing to all hands. A point or two,
or even more, will not mean an important
increase of wages.
The trend in labor demands for new
definitions of work, such as modifications
of the portal-to-portal idea and the like,
is another example.
But the prize example of getting away
from all consideration of work performed
is the Petrillo conception of private social-
ism. His demands for a private tax on
records to support a private pension fund
gets away not only from the principle of
work performed, but from payment of
wages to the people who work. Payments
under his scheme are made to the union
itself and to people who are not working
for the employer at all.
THE WAY BACK
The answer of J. W. Murray of R.C.A.
to the Petrillo demands is an important
document in the long history of labor
principles. He said: "From the very begin-
ning it has been R.C.A. Victor's position
that we are willing to negotiate an agree-
ment which has to do with the welfare
of the performing musicians employed by
the company to make records. The union
states that they have no dissatisfaction
with either wages or working conditions
which prevailed at the time of the strike.
However, the union has demanded that
we pay money directly to them for the
benefit of unemployed musicians. We are
unwilling to pay money either direct to
a union, or to persons not employed by
us and who have never been employed
by us. That is the principal point at issue,
as far as we are concerned, that is hold-
ing up a settlement of the controversy."
"The way back to first principles is clear.
It is to pay more money only for more
work.
Copyright, 1913, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.