The Big Fight
on Price Front
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Since both the administration and John
L. Lewis are eager to capture the support
of country-wide opinion, the scene of their
moves and countermoves is rapidly shift-
ing away from the immediate issues of the
case to the field of prices. That explains
the hurried series of actions on the price
front these days.
Unquestionably the strongest gun in the
Lewis attack was his claim that prices
were out of control in the coal areas. This
was something that could be understood
by people who could make neither head
nor tail of portal-to-portal, annual wages
or six-day weeks. For a whole nation
could hear and feel the timbers cracking
in price ceilings. Their grocery bills were
messages hot from a moving front.
MANY COMPLAINTS
The past week has seen a number of
labor organizations other than the U.M.W.
seize the opening breached by Lewis to
register complaints against the rigidity of
the President's hold-the-line order. Many
factors, including the black market, the
claim, have made the Little Steel formula
inadequate. Philip Pearl in the A.F.L.
News Letter charges that the President
and Director Byrnes have "hedged (the
W.L.B.) with decrees, chained its power
with rigid formulas and finally made it a
completely helpless puppet." In effect the
C.I.O. says the same thing. Reports of the
pending resignation of the labor members
of the W.L.B. begin to emerge.
Apparently something vastly more dangerous and powerful than the will of
Lewis is moving. It is the tide of economic consequences that can break over
government boards, edicts and stern
warnings.
It is now well known that all through
the feverish Sunday when a 15-day truce
was agreed upon a hot controversy raged
through and around the White House.
One group of Presidential advisers favored
a crackdown Presidential speech; the
other, a speech that would leave considerable leeway for dealing with Lewis. Secretary Ickes, reported to favor the latter
position, had been given a job to do—running the mines. He was not conversant
with the labor dispute and, as an energetic
administrator, he wanted to get down to
digging coal. The "crackdowners" had
their way about the speech, but in the
scuffling aftermath they have lost ground
steadily.
SOMETHING TO HOPE FOR
That might have been anticipated by
anyone who knows James F. Byrnes. For,
long after all hope of agreement in any
controversy, Byrnes will turn up with
some new means of reconciliation. An
open fight is abhorrent to him. It is an
affront to his deep faith that nothing in
the world is more important than agreement.
So, the O.P.A. is moving faster toward
doing something about living costs. Two
small spots on the map (far from the
Appalachian fields, it must be noted) have
trouble over bread prices. With a tremendous to-do and clatter, Messrs. Byrnes
and Brown provide relief there. A half
billion subsidy program to roll back prices
2½ per cent is rumored. A new plan
regionalizing price control, appears. The
desperate and restless W.L.B. confers with
Mr. Byrnes.
The country may well hope and pray
that Mr. Byrnes succeeds in his efforts
which, concededly, are merely to buy time
to plan more effective action. For most
of our apprehensions about what will happen when the coal truce is over center,
not upon the W.L.B. or Ickes, but upon
Byrnes' efforts to hold the line after other
hold-the-lines have failed.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.