Lost Rights of
U.S. Workers
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The troubles of John L. Lewis in getting A.F.L. officialdom to take him back
highlight an exceedingly important difference between corporate and union
mergers. In the case of corporations, long lambasted by union leaders as "bloodless
autocracies," the stockholder at least has a chance to vote when mergers are created.
Not so in union mergers; it's all done by executive boards. The United
Mine Worker has been moved around by Mr. Lewis for years wherever his caprice
has pointed.
In this projected merger, there are none of the restrictions that are imposed upon
the "autocratic" corporation—no S.E.C., no Attorney General, no I.C.C., no F.C.C., no
anything. New Deal labor agencies like the N.L.R.B. are there to help labor
unions, not to impede the freedom of their bosses in any embarrassing way. Such
are the ways of "economic democracy."
STOCKHOLDER CAN QUIT
If the stockholder does not like the merger of his corporation, he has a dozen
ways to register his protest. Or he can cease being a stockholder by the simple
process of selling his stock. A mine worker or a member of an A.F.L. union
who does not like this merger has no means of protest. He can quit, of course,
but the money he has paid into the treasury of the union stays there. His money,
with the multitudinous money of all the other workers in the union, can be moved
about by his superiors. If he quits, he can get another job, which will probably
be in another union subject to the same tyranny as that of the one he left.
Not only is democracy a sham in such cases, but so is representative government.
The public is led to believe that the grand convention of the union is a
truly representative affair. But an examination of the basic charters and practices
of unions reveals what a hollow shell their methods of representation really are.
If a local gets difficult, the national president and executive board can do
many things with it. In many cases it can take over its affairs from headquarters in
what amounts, roughly, to a receivership. It can merge the local with another local
in a sort of gerrymandering process. So far as destroying independent action is
concerned, it is as if Mr. Roosevelt, fearing a close election in 1944, should decide
to merge Alabama and New York.
LEADERS OWN THE JOBS
Fundamentally, what has happened is that union leaders own the jobs and rent
them out to the workers, with all the powers of a proprietary landlord. If, in
the infinite wisdom of the leaders, it is decided to hand over union votes to a
political candidate, and a worker makes violent protest, the union can make things
so uncomfortable that the worker will probably give up his political rights without
further ado.
An interesting and lengthy list might be made of the American rights that
workers have surrendered for the spurious new freedom they have gained in the
past 10 years. And the fena gling that characterizes this merger business highlights
all those lost rights.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce
Poor Jobs for Boys
Richmond News Leader
If you are interested in a boy who says he is changing jobs to "get more money,"
try to ascertain the nature of the work he is quitting and of the work he expects
to do. Unless the boy has other persons desperately dependent on him, the guiding
consideration ought not to be what the new position pays, but what it teaches
and what it promises for the future. Does the high wage simply cover a temporary
job in which a boy will learn nothing? When the war is over, will the boy be
able to continue profitably at the job? If he is going to be called next year to
enter the Army, will he meantime have laid the foundation of an apprenticeship
in a trade or will he simply have learned to do some work for which there is to
be no demand in peacetime? Of course, it is hard to make an inexperienced boy
see the importance of his decision when he knows he will go into the Army next
autumn or next year, but if he can get a chance now to start at a trade, instead
of a mere job, he can come from the war and start at something which will yield
him a decent living as long as he can work. It is not the starting pay that
counts; it is the continuing pay.
Keep It Up!
Philadelphia Inquirer
"O.P.A. to aid canning of fruits and vegetables." It might help also to can
part of O.P.A.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.