'A' New President
Is Only Remedy'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The Jeffers-Patterson row is a comedy
without a hero and a problem without a
solution. We shall muddle through it all,
suffer what it costs and move on to
other things-more rows and more mud-
dles.
This observer has no Pollyanna hope
that it will result in a rationalization of
war machinery nor any disposition to
point out that a war council is needed.
One is needed. That has been said every-
where to no apparent end. The remedy
is a new President, and to say that is
futile, too, because we cannot have a
new President for 16 months.
It does no harm, however, to say that
if a Prime Minister of England permitted
this sort of thing to happen, a responsible
House of Commons would turn him out
with his whole caboodle of squalling
and scratching ministers; they would turn
them out, war or no war, as they turned
ministers out in many past wars and in
this one, too.
PRESIDENT BLAMED
For the thing that is the matter is the
President, and he is exhibiting the same
lack of administrative capacity that mani-
fested itself 10 years ago. It is impossible
to tell why he permits his subordinates
to get into public brawls, but it must
be due to one of two personal traits.
Either he permits his subordinates to
quarrel publicly because he deliberately
wants them to do so, or he is incapable
of making a decision until he sees what
the public thinks of the merits of the
dispute. The second of these, while it
reveals a curious method of making de-
cisions, seems the more tenable theory.
All his life the President has studied
not hard scientific facts but the com-
plex mysteries of public psychology. Be-
fore decisions are made he does not ask,
"What are the facts?" but "What is the
public thinking about the facts?" This
would be a disastrous way to run a
business. It need scarcely be added that
it's a mighty poor way to run a govern-
ment.
In the present case, two men both
honorable and able, have two different
jobs to do. Patterson must get high oc-
tane gasoline for his planes; Jeffers was
handed the Baruch report and was told
to get rubber made. There obviously
isn't enough equipment to get both rub-
ber and gasoline made. Patterson cannot
be expected to know the rubber picture
nor Jeffers the gasoline picture. Both
problems involve a mass of detail an out-
sider cannot possibly unravel for weeks.
HOW LONG?
So the public must make judgment,
not on the facts, but upon extraneous
factors such as the relative respect they
have for each man in the contest, their
immediate emotional reaction to the war,
the civilian pinch or what not. Millions
of words will be printed this week and
tons of paper wasted with the printing
of the words to no rational end; because
judgments expressed on the relative
merits in this dispute can have no basis
of facts. Only the head of the whole
show can make the decision, and he will
not do so until all the mess has been
aired publicly.
Next year the President who admin-
isters things this way goes to the coun-
try. When he does so, it will be well to
remember this rubber-gasoline fight and
the many similar ones these long years.
This President has always and will al-
ways do things that way. The question
will be how long the country can stand
that sort of thing.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
To a Senator
Bridgeport Telegram
A Boston newspaper recently carried a
letter from some correspondents who
merely signed themselves "John and Jane
Smith, Middleville, U.S.A.," but who will
be immediately recognized as residents of
our own city; in fact, of every city, town
and village in the U.S.A.
Here is the letter, addressed to a Sena-
tor:
"We know you have to think of big sums
and spend a lot of money for the war,
but try and remember how hard Mother
and I worked to buy $200 worth of bonds.
"Don't let them throw our money away,
or waste even a little. A wasted million
dollars won't save any soldiers' lives. And
it will hurt 5000 families like ours who
sweated it out in bonds and taxes.
"And listen, Senator, don't worry about
whether we're going to co-operate or not.
We've given Uncle Sam our boys, our
business, our money, and all of our con-
fidence, and if you think anybody that
will give this much is going to quibble
about a gallon of gasoline or a can of
beans, then all we can say is that when
you took the train for Washington, you
left all your common sense on the plat-
form back here."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.