Putting Fetters
on Management
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
At a moment when American boys
are on the eve of a bloody fight to the
finish with the most resourceful general
modern Germany has produced, when
the submarine campaign is at the zero
hour and when our all-too-thin line in
the South Pacific is holding a vicious
enemy, a section of union labor has chosen
to renew the prewar fight for an objective
that threatens the whole basis of
managerial authority and responsibility
in the very industries upon which victory
depends. That is the cold issue the
National Labor Relations Board has permitted
to be raised in the General Motors’ Diesel
engine plant in Detroit.
C. E. Wilson, president of G.M., has
done a service in bringing the issue
squarely before Congress. The effort to
unionize foremen has been growing in
all directions in the past few months.
The pressure to bring into unions the
entire range of management below a few
isolated heads has been intensified in
many places other than in the manufacturing
industries.
FULL RESPONSIBILITY
The issue, as Mr. Wilson points out, is
fundamental.
“Foremen are the first-line officers of
the management,” he says. “To them is
delegated the ultimate responsibility assumed
by General Motors of directing
the workmen at the point where they are
actually engaged in war production. Since
the foreman exercises managerial authority,
he must be solely and exclusively
responsible to higher management . . .
“With a union of foremen having
supervision of union workmen, we could
no longer permit the foremen to receive
and act on grievances for the management,
since it would mean that the union
had taken over both sides of the bargaining
table, and the discipline necessary to
maintain efficient production would disappear.”
What is involved is the simple question
whether management shall have authority
to carry out its responsibility
to stockholders, customers and the public
in any activity or business where workers
are unionized. It is the same question
raised two years ago by Philip Murray’s
“C.I.O. defense plan.”
Precisely where the line is to be drawn
between those who work and those who
direct the work is not easy to determine,
but that it must be drawn so top management
can have reasonable means of directing
the production for which it is
held responsible is obvious.
‘IT IS CHAOS’
There is a certain irony in the reopening
of the question now, just as there
was in Murray’s more sweeping proposal
to change the American concept of management.
That proposal, too, would have
destroyed the balance in the industrial
structure. It, too, would have wiped out
the work of generations of labor leaders,
which helped make management free so
that it could act as mediator of the varying
claims of consumers, owners, investors
and labor. It, too, by substituting
for the 19th century subserviency of
managers to owners a subserviency of
managers to labor unions, would have
destroyed the independence of management.
The ultimate result of the N.L.R.B.
policy will be to freeze top management
in helpless isolation. This is worse than
socialism; it is chaos, for the regime thus
created will have no heads at all. It will
consist of a great many small authorities
really responsible to no one and, in many
cases, in bitter conflict with each other.
If the administration, despite its pious
protestations, intends to permit this to
happen, the last final hope is in Congress.
Mr. Wilson has put the issue on the right
doorstep.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.