Premium Wage
System Advocated
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is time, despite politics and palaver,
to recognize that the European mass and
class labor standards which have risen
in America have failed in this, the great-
est of all production crises. This country
was built upon the principle that there
were no classes in society. A man had
his labor and his courage. He did not
object if an employer tried to get his
money's worth out of a labor hour. And
his employer did not object to high wages
if labor yielded a good result.
In spite of increasing labor pressure to
establish wages built upon a class prin-
ciple of uniformity, industry succeeded by
a vast differentiation in job classifications.
In fact, this success was cited by Dr. Isa-
dor Lubin, speaking for the administra-
tion two years ago in opposition to wage-
fixing. Nevertheless, there was a belated
surrender by the administration to the
principle of uniformity in the so-called
ceiling on labor.
EFFICIENCY PROBLEM
Then came absenteeism, bootlegging of
labor, efforts to fix wages to living costs
and, finally, as in portal-to-portal, pay-
ment for things that have nothing to do
with work performed. Meanwhile, indi-
vidual labor efficiency remained a prob-
lem.
The crisis before government now is
a test of whether it really wants more pro-
duction per hour of labor. If so, a clear-
cut method of procedure lies before it.
First, it should correct the deficiencies
in its price index. Wide discrepancies be-
tween the Federal Reserve Board index
and the studies of some private agencies
show that the government has no de-
pendable standard to guide it in dealing
with demands for wage increases. An hour
is still 60 minutes, but what you can buy
for an hour's work depends upon what
index you use.
Second, the unions themselves should
be required to prevent bootlegging of
jobs by ousting all members who, by
changing jobs, get more than the Labor
Board has awarded.
PREMIUM ADVOCATED
Third, the Labor Board should substi-
tute an efficiency bonus for the "Little
Steel" formula. Thus, when, by co-opera-
tive labor-management efforts, the effi-
ciency of an industry has been decisively
increased, an efficiency premium should
be allowed. In short, more pay should
be given for more production. Prices are
not increased when increases in pay are
accompanied by more production of goods.
But premiums should not be paid for
increases in production due to reasons
other than hourly labor efficiency, such
as the expansion of hours per week or
improved machinery. They should be paid
only for established improvement in la-
bor efficiency per hour. There are several
sound ways of measuring this, and only
the bitter opposition of labor leaders in-
tent upon class measurement of labor has
prevented their use. Labor-management
co-operation would make their use pos-
sible now, and more pay and more prod-
ucts would result.
There is only one way now to increase
production with a minimum of inflation,
and that is the way back to the American
system of individual rewards for increased
effort. The caste system of labor rewards
has failed to produce the goods.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.