Canada Fears
American Upset
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CLEVELAND, June 4.—Any doubt that
a wobbling domestic policy in economic
affairs is international in its repercussions
can be dissipated by a study of
things here in the lake region and in near-
by Canada. Most eastern thinking neglects
certain plain geographic facts. That
thinking assumes that the Middle West is
isolationist politically and economically.
The fact is that this section is the spot
where the industrial United States comes
closest to a highly industrialized foreign
country and where international economic
relations are most clearly demonstrated
in practice.
Informed people who have been in
Ontario recently say that there is no end
of worry there about the condition of our
O.P.A. and about our whole structure of
price controls. Any breakdown here will
be not only national but, continental in
scope, for if prices and supplies in this
country get out of control, Canada’s successful
system of moderate subsidies
might easily be wiped out.
SUCCESSFUL BOARD
The Canadian Wartime Prices and
Trade Board has been far more successful
than ours. But if inflation goes too far in
the United States, the Canadian Wartime
Prices and Trade Board would plainly be
sucked into the vortex. People here who
know the very able head of the Canadian
board, Donald Gordon, say without joking
that we might do well to borrow him to
do our job.
The repercussions of our failure may
well reach much farther than Canada.
Take meat, for example. The failure to
control the black market in this region
may well menace our shipments to England
and Russia. The situation here is
as bad or worse than it is elsewhere because
there is so much short-circuiting of
the normal flow of meat in this region.
Shipments of meat are earmarked for
lend-lease at the stockyards in Cleveland,
Columbus, Indianapolis and St. Louis.
The meat which fails to reach those centers,
of course, cannot be shipped. The
complaint here is that the O.P.A. has
neither the energy nor the staff to cope
with the black market and its semilegal
fellow traveler, the “gray” market. The
control of retail markets is not the whole
answer to the problem, because supply,
as well as prices, must be got in hand.
TAKEN WITH A SHRUG
The new Byrnes appointment and reorganization
is taken here with a sigh
and a shrug of the shoulders. One observer
remarked philosophically that the
country must apparently be prepared for
such reorganization every three months
or so. That has been the rule in the past,
and that promises to be the rule in the
future. Meanwhile, fortunately, the industrial
machine is rolling along, piling
up massive figures for Mr. Byrnes to
make speeches about. If that helps Mr.
Byrnes, with his well-nigh impossible
job, no one objects.
Canada is watching the new setup with
tempered and prayerful hope, realizing
more keenly than most Americans that
any failure in our anti-inflation machinery
will extend beyond our borders into their
own economy.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.