The Governors'
Conference
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
COLUMBUS (0.) June 25.—There may
be plenty of political undercurrents here,
but the main drift of the annual Gover-
nors' Conference is extremely business-
like. Close to 40 chief executives of the
States assembled here are doing their
utmost to find useful ways to fit the
States into the national war effort.
Whether or not they are so intended, the
sum total of their efforts so far makes it
overwhelmingly clear that this country is
too big to be run from Washington.
Obviously there is no happiness in the
States about how Washington is oper-
ating on the home front. Governor Dewey
had his say, before the conference opened,
about the national government's "inex-
cusable deficiencies." Other Governors—
and it is significant that this includes
Democrats as well as Republicans—have
been critical of almost every war agency
excepting the Army and Navy.
THE CZARS STAY AWAY
Thomas Jefferson would have enjoyed
this conference. Scarcely a speech or
question period has failed to reinforce the
wisdom of his view that governmental
authority must be diversified over the
nation. And, curiously, almost every top-
drawer Washington official scheduled to
attend has appeared only by proxy.
That's a pity, because it would not have
hurt some of the asserted czars originally
scheduled to speak to hear how their
operations are regarded out in the nation
where the pinch of incompetence is felt
most deeply. They all sent speeches to
be read by deputy czars, however, and it
is to be hoped that those subordinates will
profit by the criticism.
This grand council of American Gover-
nors grew up voluntarily. This is the 35th
of its kind and, according to the records,
the best attended. It stands to be the
most successful, too, perhaps because the
Governors are not strangers to one an-
other this year. There were four regional
conferences of the Governors in April, at
which postwar problems were discussed.
This conference of all the States is a fit-
ting climax to a notable revival of interest
in State powers and services which prom-
ises to have widespread repercussions.
WARREN IMPRESSIVE
Governor Warren of California, for one,
drove home the point that most of the
country underestimates the needs of the
West Coast for home defense. The Coast
war plants are facing a deadly enemy in
the Pacific. The danger of fire caused by
incendiaries in the forests of the region
is acute. Warren's argument against ill-
advised talk of releasing Japanese in-
ternees was impressive. If there is con-
cern in the East over a half-dozen German
saboteurs, can the West Coast be blamed
for worrying about the tens of thousands
of Japanese potential enemies? The Japa-
nese deported to other States will not be
permitted to return to California—if there
is any lawful means of preventing it—
Warren stated.
There was plenty of dissent from some
of Governor Dewey's ideas about food, but
no one among the Governors attempted to
defend the Washington food administra-
tion. The differences in opinion con-
cerned detail. There was no defense of
Federal control as such.
Governor Bricker, as host to this bi-
partisan group, is conducting himself with
the strictest regard to his position. As
the home Governor, he has denied himself
the luxury of expressing his views on
political questions. This irritates some of
the newspapermen, who hasten to write
home that the Ohio Governor is a declin-
ing star. But these reports must be heav-
ily discounted. He has won friends by his
impartiality, and friends thus gained are
lasting ones.
There are many months ahead for poli-
tics. This week's truce is for the purpose
of attempting to throw light on the crit-
ical problems of the home front.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.