Theorists
Given a Jolt
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Not many people remember the Temporary National Economic Committee—once commonly known as the TNEC. But the New Dealers who plan to make over the world remember it. In fact, they plan to use its findings when they start to operate on us. Fortunately the National Association of Manufacturers remembers it, too, and has just brought out a systematic criticism of the 43 monographs written for the TNEC.
"Fact and Fancy in the TNEC Monographs," fruit of the labors of two first-rate economists, John Scoville of the Chrysler Corp. and Noel Sargent of the N.A.M., is a thoroughly useful job. It summarizes, for "businessmen, students and educators" and offers keen critical comment on 12,000 pages of TNEC books.
The TNEC was a strange affair and it put on a strange show. It all started when New Deal boys, red-faced and stammering over the 1937 depression, were trying to blame someone else for the halt in the march to Utopia. They put the heat on the President to go all out for spending and lending in early 1938—not too long before the election, it should be noted. About the same time the old lion of Idaho, William E. Borah, reared up again and roared about monopoly. In May, 1938, the President asked for some spending money and for an investigation of big, bad monopolies.
'MONSTROUS COMPROMISE
But Senator O'Mahoney, eager to launch his Federal incorporation bill, jumped into the opening thus created and proposed an investigation of his own. To get the bill through he agreed to a monstrous compromise—an investigating committee which was neither legislative nor executive but a hybrid with three Senators, three Representatives and six representatives of executive departments.
Never mind the propriety or constitutionality of this marriage between two branches of government. The committee was created to get authority and money and it operated—and how!
When the spend-lend boys rushed their people into representation on the committee and scattered them thickly on its numerous staffs their victory promised to be complete. Now they could use all the power of government to lift their businessmen enemies on the griddle and all their ingenuity to pour hot, sticky grease over them. Monopoly be hanged! This show covered every aspect of economic life.
In hearings that stretched over more than a year, witnesses from the administration spread on the record dozens of the choice characterizations of business they had formerly uttered only in less public forums. Businessmen were "tyrants," "Caesars" and a great many other things. Leaders in business management, ripe with years of experience, were grilled by young lawyers still wet with the dew of Yale and other alma maters. Busy examiners tore through the files of innumerable corporations.
THEN THE MONOGRAPHS!
Senator O'Mahoney struggled to be fair and tolerant to business, but most of the group employed by the TNEC were of no such mood. Economists, quasi economists and just plain propagandists were set to work on ponderous monographs. Volumes of hearings rolled off the government presses and for long months after the hearings "monographs" on this or that kept popping with fainter and fainter detonations as the roar of war abroad rose.
The TNEC was the first casualty of the war—the boys could not get their story over in time for the 1938 election. By 1940 they were buried in the rubble of London. When Hitler jolted the country out of the era of reform only one hope remained to those who looked to the TNEC to make America over—the record. There it would stay on groaning shelves, some scores of volumes including 43 monographs which could be quoted as—final authority—on disputed subjects to wait the period of postwar planning. Then out of the smoke would rise the New Deal like "another sun risen at midnoon."
That these documents shall not be handed to another generation unchallenged is the work Scoville and Sargent have set out to achieve. Over all, the Scoville-Sargent conclusions are that, at a cost to the taxpayers of $750,000, the TNEC produced 43 monographs of highly uneven value, some of which were contributions to knowledge, some harmless and valueless, some full of glaring errors and inconsistencies, some dictated by bias against business and some inimical to the American system of free enterprise.
The detailed criticisms in the Scoville-Sargent book amply justify their conclusions. It will stand guard until the new day.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.