Governor Dewey
Has Hard Fight

BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Tom Dewey has had another break of
bad luck. But once again in his remark-
able career, he may well come up from
the floor and win.
Just as Dewey was in the middle of the
honeymoon of his administration as Gov-
ernor, his Lieutenant Governor died, and
the courts have ordered a new election
this fall. The Republican choice is State
Senator Joe R. Hanley, who is acting
Lieutenant Governor. The Democrats,
healing the rift that divided them last
year, have chosen as a compromise Wil-
liam N. Haskell, a retired general whose
record is good and who is fairly well
known. But the personalities of these
candidates will be a secondary issue in
the coming campaign; the real issue will
be Dewey's availability for the Presiden-
tial nomination in 1944 and the desire of
Roosevelt supporters to wipe out the
defeat of 1942 in New York.

ISSUES OBSCURED
Curiously enough, both sides will prob-
ably try publicly to obscure these major
issues. On the one side, Dewey will cer-
tainly not indicate that he wants Hanley
as a possible successor in case he moves
to the White House. Despite the tremen-
dous popularity of Dewey throughout the
country as a possible candidate, there is
no evidence that Dewey did not mean
precisely what he said when he declared
himself out of the 1944 picture. This re-
porter can add, incidentally, that he has
made every effort to find such evidence.
On the other side, Jim Farley just as sin-
cerely does not want the success of the
Democratic candidate to indicate an in-
dorsement of the fourth-term movement.
But the dilemma of leaders on both sides
is that if they avoid the issues in which
the public is really interested, there will
be a very greatly reduced turnout at the
polls on election day.
Many intangibles obscure the election's
probable outcome. It is certain, however,
that the election will have a profoundly
important bearing upon the immediate
future of Dewey's career. If his candidate
wins by a fair margin, it will mean that
his administration is solidly indorsed by
the voters and that he can deliver the
vote of New York against a united Demo-
cratic party.

CAN'T RESIST DRAFT
That, in turn, will make the present
preference for him among the country's
Republican voters grow to overwhelming
proportions. In that case, he can scarcely
resist a draft for the nomination. If, on
the other hand, his candidate loses, Dewey
can hardly accept the nomination and
turn the State over to the Democrats, if
elected. Republican politicians and voters
in the country will turn elsewhere for a
candidate, forgetting all about Dewey
until some later year.
Whatever the effect upon his Presiden-
tial possibilities, Dewey will have to make
the fight of his life in this campaign. But
Dewey has shown the capacity to sur-
mount obstacles before this. When he was
trying his most famous case as District
Attorney against Tammany Leader Hines,
and most of his case was disclosed in the
record, the judge declared a mistrial.
Dewey came back from that seemingly
knockout blow to convict his man in an-
other trial. In 1938 he lost the Governor-
ship by a narrow margin and, probably
because of that, lost the Presidential nomi-
nation in 1940 as well. But he recovered
to win a smashing victory in 1942 and, so,
to become his party's top-drawer choice
for the Presidential nomination in 1944.
Dewey is an able, courageous fighter
who never gives up. He may make this
present streak of tough breaks the basis
of another triumph. If he does, it will be
very bad news indeed for the New Deal.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.