The Flynn Fight Just a Starter?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Mr. Edward J. Flynn's action in requesting the withdrawal of his nomination as Minister to Australia once more underlines a condition within the Democratic party that has been the subject of mention in this column for several months.
Whether Mr. Flynn went to Australia or not was a matter of importance chiefly to Mr. Flynn and to the President individually. But the state of unrest and rebellion within the Senate which the fight over the nomination revealed is significant generally.
It is freely admitted by Senators on all sides of the controversy that, other things aside, Mr. Flynn might have been confirmed on the basis of his personal qualifications. Observers have remarked that men of more distinct lack of capacity have been confirmed during the past few years with little comment. But Mr. Flynn was chairman of the Democratic party. This fact made possible a crystallization of the unrest that is everywhere beneath the surface of the President's party. It made possible a violent protest for avowed reasons which could in no circumstances be regarded as obstructing the President's conduct of the war or of foreign relations.
RIFT GOES LONG WAY BACK
Examination of the list of Democrats who announced their opposition to the nomination prior to Mr. Flynn's withdrawal makes this clear. Three were men whom the President attempted to purge. One, Wheeler, has been openly opposed by the White House for years. Byrd is no favorite there. And McKellar has been increasingly opposed to the President and his "bureaucrats" for a long time. Those Democrats who had not committed themselves publicly to oppose Flynn, but who were certain to do so, were in the main conservative Senators, chiefly from the South.
Seeing this prospective revolt within the Democratic party, the Republican minority seized the opportunity to announce its practically solid opposition to the nomination. That is precisely what the Democratic minority used to do whenever Presidents Coolidge or Hoover found themselves in party trouble over a nomination.
Underlying the uprising is a rift in the President's party so serious that it may well result in his ultimate defeat. This rift goes back to the beginning of his administration.
Which recalls a spark of humor once set off at a party dinner in 1933 by Homer Cummings, then Attorney General. Amid roars of laughter from Senators, Congressmen and assorted politicos, Cummings said with obvious irony: "There are still a few Democrats in my department. But I'll root 'em out." From that time to this, organization Democrats have bitterly resented the position of men of doubtful Democratic allegiance in places of power in the administration. The latest manifestation of this resentment, it might be added, involves the appointment of tire inspectors in New York City.
AN ATTEMPTED COMPROMISE
As a party leader Mr. Roosevelt never decided whether he would use the established Democratic party as the instrument for his reforms or whether he would create a new organization for the purpose. He tried to compromise. He neither purged his party nor adequately supported its legally elected representatives. He placed between himself and the party a sort of informal group of New Dealers which included such men as Hopkins, Henderson, Corcoran and Wallace. The result has been disaffection on both sides.
In 1940 he permitted the country to believe that Mr. Hopkins at Chicago possessed more power than Mr. Farley and to believe, further, that Mr. Farley had been treated badly. He offended the southern members of his party by forcing Mr. Wallace upon them. More recently he has permitted Mrs. Roosevelt, Mr. Wallace and others to make speeches which have deeply disturbed the South. And he permitted a vicious brawl over the poll tax to go on for days in the Senate. At this moment some lifelong Democrats are sufficiently resentful to welcome Democratic defeat rather than submit to further intraparty confusion.
Their resentment now takes the form of a protest against "the bureaucracy." It will grow in force. It is not a lack of support of the war or of the President's control of foreign policy. The Flynn incident is only a beginning of the fireworks.
Frank Walker, now Democratic chairman, may well earn the melancholy distinction of presiding over the liquidation of the Democratic New Deal party.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.