Mr. Wallace as a Dual Personality
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Since the Hon. Henry A. Wallace has
been proclaimed as a mystic and meta-
physician of sorts, he no doubt is fully
aware of the idea of dualism, well known
throughout ancient religions. Stripped of
lingo, it means the belief that within the
thin shell of man there live two spirits of
personalities—sometimes in balance and
harmony, often in conflict.
This hypothesis has had great vogue in
the more practical sphere of New Deal
politics. Thus, when some fervent admin-
istration official has made a speech which
has collided violently with some well-
considered administration dogma, the
President has explained that it had no
official significance. The man was speaking
as a citizen, not as an official. The
speech was, in short, not ex cathedra,
but, perhaps, ex proprio motu, which
means on his own, or something like that.
The strange constitutional position of
Mr. Wallace in the present situation not
only violates principle but creates bad
practical results. And since the Vice-President
reaches back into ancient meta-
physics for his dual personality concept,
we may well invoke the more recent
philosophy of the Constitution.
HIS DOUBLE JOB
Mr. Wallace is at the same time Vice-
President of the United States and head
of an executive agency, the Board of Economic
Warfare. In the latter job, he is
a subordinate of the President. As Vice-
President, he is not. In fact, as Vice-President
his responsibility is to no one, except
in the unusual case of impeachment.
The Vice-President is named in only
two places in the Constitution proper. In
the first, under legislative specifications,
it says he shall be President of the Senate.
In the second, under executive specifications,
it says he shall discharge the
duties of the President in the case of
death, resignation or inability to discharge
the duties of the office. In the 12th and
20th Amendments are some provisions
that have no bearing on the present case.
At this moment it is clear that the Vice-
President is exclusively a legislative
officer. Under the Constitution, he becomes
an executive officer only if the
Presidential office is vacated. But under
executive order, Mr. Wallace has become
an executive officer as head of the B.E.W.
—in short, duality doctrine is invoked.
What is the practical situation? Since
Mr. Wallace has only one body, regardless
of the number of identities that may
inhabit it, the Senate cannot discriminate.
When the Senate wants to perform its
constitutional job of investigating an executive
office, it finds itself confronted
with the problem of summoning its own
high exalted President. This is embarrassing
all around. It was accomplished
last December by Senator Danaher only
in secret session and because the Vice-
President voluntarily appeared. And it
was the first time in the many months of
its existence that the Senate learned anything
directly about the B.E.W.
A STRANGE SITUATION
The Vice-President must preside over
the Senate and exercise utter impartiality.
Can he do this when Senators are belaboring
Mr. Wallace of the B.E.W. on the
floor? The House of Commons settles this
problem by isolating its Speaker from
politics, Cabinet and administrative responsibility.
What is the situation when the Vice-
President whacks Mr. Jones for something
that Mr. Jones did to Mr. Wallace
of the B.E.W.? What becomes of Mr.
Roosevelt’s authority when the Vice-President,
who is not subject to his authority,
violates the President’s order about public
quarrels? Why, among millions of
people, could the President not find some
suitable head of the B.E.W. other than a
man who labors under such constitutional
difficulties and immunities? Dual-
ism is a matter for metaphysical speculation,
not the practice of government.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.