A New Realm of ‘Magic’ Opened

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

By insisting upon portal-to-portal pay and a revision of price control, John L. Lewis, that stern individualist, has really done the New Deal a great service. He has driven it to a labor policy which hinges on the artful device of paying workers for something other than work.

In this realm of magic, the New Deal has always achieved its most dazzling effects. It has already eliminated the hateful word “debt” by calling debt an investment, not to mention making farmers prosperous by not farming.

Already the N.W.L.B. has got a name for this magic maneuver. It consists, in essence, of redefining “work.” The dictionary has never had any terrors for the Washington reformer. If a word offends, pluck it out and put in another. If a definition is troublesome, write in a new one.

The new magic, the portal-to-portal principle, opens up vast possibilities. The N.W.L.B. has granted taxi drivers sometime for stand-by time between Washington and Alexandria. The railroad brotherhoods have an enormous assortment of other-than-work claims. Beyond this lie many potential claims. Most minimum spend less time on portal-to-portal than stenographers spend on busses or streetcars. A white collar worker must put on his collar. A shut-in worker must have out-of-door pedestrianism. An outdoors worker eats more. In short, every life is shaped in some measure around the central fact of the job.

In principle, all this means that a busy government must ultimately thrust its ubiquitous nose into every cranny of private life. But that’s what socialized government means. It heralds an ultimate regime which would be an Eleanor Roosevelt dream.

But it means more than that. When, in order to find a way to avoid paying wages, the government agrees to change prices, give subsidies and tamper with the rules of supply and demand, it reaches its hand into the labyrinthian ramifications of the economic system. Ultimately, labor and business alike lose their liberty. The economic system under the hand of bureaucracy suffers a steady deterioration.

Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate

UNITED WE STAND

Flashos From the United Nations Front

by JAMES HILTON

In an attempt to check the sabotaging of trains Germans have ordered that every military train in Belgium must carry seven Belgian hostages.

A collective farm in Russia is gathering this year a crop of auburn-colored cotton on a 1000-acre plantation. Other state farms have successfully experimented in growing dark brown, blue, dark green and other colored cottons.

Recently the United States Army in Britain found that it needed 100,000 pinochle decks; and as this game is little known in England special plates were made by the British government and the decks were struck off and presented to the Americans.

Oct. 31 was Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek’s 56th birthday by our reckoning, but 57th by the Chinese.

Danish workers have threatened to strike rather than begin work on the salvaging of Danish naval vessels which were recently scuttled or blown up under the noses of the Germans.

There is such a shortage of household china in Australia that to reduce production man-hours cups are being made without handles.

Recently in the Pacific an exchange of men was tried for a month between an American and a British ship. It worked out very well.

Czechoslovak People’s University was recently inaugurated in London. Full courses in the arts and sciences will be given.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.