What of Russia
After the War?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CHICAGO, Feb. 1.—The pot of speculation
over Stalin's absence from the Casablanca
meeting not only continues to
boil, but to shoot up feverish jets of steam
about Russian postwar policy. What is it?
What does it portend for the United Nations,
the continent of Europe and for
us? Obviously no one either inside or outside
our officialdom really knows. But the
possibility that Stalin may be steering
toward a new kind of Russian isolationism
after the war seems well worth pondering.
One of the professional radicals—about
town remarked a few days ago that he
believes Communism will come west to
the Rhine. He looks with no little satisfaction
to Japan's complete engagement of
our energies, and England's as well, for
some time after the war with Germany
is over and to Russia's exercise of a free
hand over Europe. From this point he
goes on to predict that Russia will make
Germany one of the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics with full voting power
and all the rest.
SOME SPECULATIONS
Hardly more reliable observers, stressing
the "complementary economy" of Russia
and Germany, suggest the possibility
that the end of the war in Europe may
see a revival of the Russian-German
rapprochement of 1939, but with Russia
in the dominant position this time. But
this seems scarcely likely either. Generations
of rival interests between the two
countries preceded the short-lived 1939
agreement, and the treachery of Germany
in 1941 has probably solidified that
distrust for generations to come.
The "complementary economy" point
simply means that Russia has raw materials
needed by Germany and that Germany
is highly developed industrially.
Counterbalancing this factor, however, is
the race of Russia to industrialize itself
and the further fact that the United
States was and is likely to be increasingly
important in selling machinery and engineering
skill to the Soviets.
It would not be surprising if Russia's
dominant policy should be to seek self-
sufficiency and to avoid wars beyond her
orders—that would be in the nature of
isolationism combined with a lively interest
in what happens in Europe. Such
a policy would be in line with her immense
size and her possession of all the
elements of self-sufficiency, Her historic
friendship for Great Britain rests upon
the mutual desire of the two countries to
prevent an upset of balance of power in
that part of Europe which lies between
them.
HISTORIC NATIONALISM
Those who find Stalin's attitude a
"enigma" will find the same word in the
records of 1815 with reference to Czar
Alexander. In the reordering of Europe
this little-understood ruler wielded a heavy
hand. He alarmed Europe not only because
he did not reveal his purposes very
clearly but because he was the enemy
of republicanism everywhere. But the
fears did not materialize, for Alexander's
primary purpose was to make Russia safe
from attack. Perhaps that historic nationalism
is more important to Stalin
now than any ideological conquest of other
countries.
Obviously the valor, capacity and sacrifices
of Russia will all speak with a loud
voice in the postwar counsels. If any estimate
of American opinion on that subject
can be made now it is that we shall
not risk antagonizing Russia since our
territorial interests do not conflict with
hers. Perhaps all we ask is that the Communists
in our midst shall be Americans
in spirit and action or get out. Beyond
that in dealing with Russia we can well
insist upon respect for our position in
her hemisphere and good trade relations
with the big Soviet customer.
So far as policing Europe is concerned,
Stalin may have a moral as well as a
very material advantage over all comers
including ourselves. Quite probably for
that matter, Russia will emerge from this
war less Communist than when she entered.
It is significant that the Communist
press in the United States is loudly praising
the Casablanca conference. That
should dispel any further fears about
Stalin's absence from the meeting—it
might also be noted in passing that Stalin is
considerably occupied now with one of
the decisive battles in history.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.