G.O.P.Convention
to Be Put Off?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Potent people in the Republican party
are thinking very seriously about postponing their 1941 convention from the
traditional late June to mid-August.
A number of challenging reasons are
advanced for the change. One is the fact
that with a war on—and the Japanese
incident may well be in high gear then—there is so little time for people to
think of politics and so little newspaper
space for campaign news. The old way
provided a brisk first act, with its climax
and end in the convention. Then the curtain stayed down for a two-months intermission—the successful candidate, after a
brief visit to his mother’s grave and the
old home town for a picture or two of
him pitching hay and patting the calves,
retired to rest on a boat or at some mountain resort.
TOO SERIOUS A TIME
Mr. Willkie missed some of this routine
in 1940, of course, and his pause was not
one that refreshed. He didn’t pitch hay,
but he did pitch away the votes that
he needed by gay and unpremeditated
wisecracks to the press. So, surely Mr.
Willkie would welcome the new suggestion, even though it may lengthen his
current suspense.
In a country full of common sense, it
seems a bit silly to have a grave ceremony to announce to the candidate, two
months after, that his nomination has
taken place and to have him “accept”
something he has spent a good part of his
life trying to get. A nation at war is too
serious to put up with such flimflam. Mr.
Roosevelt prepared his acceptance speech
in 1932 a month or more before his
nomination and delivered it the day after
the nomination.
Moreover, the proposed delay will allow
some more meditation by delegates on
the momentous choice before them.
There will be plenty of good candidates
and a wise and unhurried choice will mean
a lot to the country.
The Democrats will probably hold their
solemn fourth-term council in September. Some months ago, the Hon. Frank
Walker proposed that both parties wait
until September, but Harrison Spangler,
suspecting that any hat tossed from the
White House secretes a brick, refused to
kick in.
WHAT EFFECT?
The effect of the delay in holding the
Republican convention upon various candidacies cannot be appraised now. Since
Mr. Willkie has already been under way
for some time, suggestion may be made
that he might suffer from overexertion
if he must beat the bushes for two whole
months more. But since he has been on
the move for three years, and since large
crowds still hang on his words, a suggestion that the people might tire of him
is a mean and myopic view of his enduring puissance.
For the benefit of those Willkie supporters who suspect all and sundry of
“stop Willkie” infection, let it be said
that those who argue for this change in
the convention date urge reasons that
have no relation to the Willkie candidacy.
They want a short campaign and a rousing one, with no long intermission that
might tempt the audience to wander to
another theater or to go home.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.