Arguments
by Quotation
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is a familiar habit of the politician
to invest himself with the real or supposed characteristics of the great dead.
The trick is rendered easier because the despoiled is beyond the protection of
law. We have seen the garments of
Washington, Jackson and Lincoln thus borrowed. This week, marking the 200th
anniversary of his birth, we shall see the robe of Jefferson torn to tatters. All
sorts of people, representing the most diverse philosophies, will be festooned
with scraps of his ample writings. Bureaucracy, Federal oppression, cross-constitutional heresy, smug reaction, self-
interest, capital, labor, agriculture, Democrats, New Dealers and Republicans—
all will reason for their purposes by that most familiar and deceptive of arguments—argument by quotation.
To prove a point by a quotation is to summon a witness who cannot be cross-examined. As likely as not the quotation
is torn from a context which, in its entirety, disproves the point urged; or it originally referred to a set of facts wholly
different from the contemporaneous point at issue; or the words quoted may have been “campaign oratory,” designed
to sway the passions of a group now long dead.
PRODUCT OF REVOLUTIONS
In appraising Jefferson it must be remembered that intellectually he was a product of two revolutions—the English
revolution of 1688 and the French upheaval of 1789. The English revolution
was a political revolution. It was carried through with an enormous citing of law.
The Declaration of Independence was Jefferson’s deduction from the arguments
of the Whigs who dethroned the Stuarts. He was, in effect, turning the guns captured from the British against their former owners.
Jefferson saw the circumstances back of the completely different French Revolution at firsthand. That was total revolution—social and political. And while
Jefferson, like Burke, recoiled from the “terror,” he was, at 50, man-of-the-world enough to check and ponder all the facts
he gathered during that explosive experience.
His conclusions don’t need to be set forth in quotations. They can be read more convincingly in his political actions
and policies.
HIS CHIEF TENETS
These fall into a self-evident philosophy whose cardinal tenets were:
1—A conviction that culture and social welfare were matters best suited to development in the States, since a nation
destined to grow as he knew we were to grow could not, without tyranny, bring so many people living in so many economic circumstances under a centralized
rule.
2—A conviction that official power corrupted those who held it and hence that short tenure and limited power were indispensable to liberty.
3—A conviction that it was necessary to expand the nation’s area into continental proportions, not only to keep old
world conflicts out of this hemisphere but to provide the nation with the means of self-sufficiency. To accomplish this, he
strained the Constitution to purchase Louisiana.
4—A conviction that stability, not necessarily virtue, depended upon men of medium property holdings. Jefferson’s
policies aimed, unsuccessfully it turned out, at discouraging the rise of great city populations.
If this recital of what Jefferson’s public life meant in action can help New Deal orators, they are welcome to it. But it’s
more likely that on this great anniversary they will prefer to sing out of the quotation hymnal, especially since the
orators of the day in Washington will be the quoting-est public figures that we have.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.