Our Many-sided
Foreign Policy
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
This promises to be a week of money
talk—big international money talk. Americans who, unlike Europeans, have never
been particularly interested in the mysteries of international finance, will be
puzzled about the Treasury plans for
international stabilization funds, “Bancor,”
currency and the like. But those who
want to hang on to their sense of direction will note at the outset that this intricate
babble is part of the vast fourfold
pattern of postwar planning now going
on in Washington. To see the differences
and similarities in the four kinds of planning
now afoot is to get some idea of
the shape of things to come.
The four types of planning can be
roughly defined by identifying them with
four names—Woodrow Wilson, Franklin
Roosevelt, Cordell Hull and Henry Morgenthau.
The Woodrow Wilson kind of planning
is primarily concerned with international
political devices on the order of the
League structure. Wilson was never much
interested or well grounded in economic
problems. He had the traditional Southern
Democrat’s faith in low tariffs and
let it go at that. What absorbed him was
the adaptation of the device of political
federation embodied in the American
Constitution to the international sphere.
A LIVE NOTION
That idea of political federation is very
much alive in Washington. Mr. Bullitt,
a Wilson protégé, emitted a Wilsonian
squawk the other day. Mr. Willkie is obviously
thinking in 1919 terms also. So
does the Ball resolution, together with
most of the academic and journalistic
fraternity who support it.
The Franklin Roosevelt type of planning
takes a wholly different tack. Roosevelt
himself was never much of a hand
at the legal details of reorganization. He’ll
settle for broad, humanitarian and none-
too-exact details. His utterances on the
postwar world to date indicate that he
thinks in terms of world agreements on
friendly principles and is content to put
off the settlement of knotty details until
later.
The Hull kind of planning looks upon
economic arrangements among the nations as the foundations of all order. And
because Secretary Hull is industrious,
tenacious and shrewd, it may be taken
for granted that if Mr. Roosevelt is still
President when the war ends, the Hull
blueprints will be the most definite things
this government will have to offer at the
peace conference. They will provide for
basic trade arrangements upon which
almost any sort of political superstructure may be built.
MORGENTHAU’S VIEW
Secretary Morgenthau thinks in terms
of international finance. His notions lean
to the unorthodox. Since he is the man
who a little over a year ago talked of
settling international balances with “something like the old trade dollar”—the currency
medium used in trade with the
Orient from 1873 to 1887—and since he
approved and encouraged the President’s
search for a new kind of stabilization
which began when he blasted the London
Conference in 1933, Morgenthau will
no doubt go a long way with the Keynes
ideas of a new world financial structure.
Certainly he will try zealously to see that
the President holds on to all his extraordinary powers, such as the power to
devalue the dollar, to control the present
stabilization fund and to buy silver and
gold. These, to Mr. Morgenthau, represent valuable trading material in the
peace negotiations.
Of course, our ultimate place in a world
order is not likely to be determined by
any of these points of view. In the long
months and years before that is settled,
American opinion, the policy of England
and what Mr. Stalin has to say will dictate the decision. But to understand American
policy in the immediate future, watch
the interaction of these four planning
groups.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.