Petrillo Pushes
Power to Limit
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
To use the biblical expression "Ren-
der unto Caesar the things that are
Caesar's" in connection with the Petrillo
case is not to make a cheap pun on Petril-
lo's name. It is to recall the fact that
Petrillo's agreement with Decca Records,
Inc., raises the same question of authority
within the nation that the Pharisees raised
with Christ.
There are, under tree and orderly gov-
ernment, many obligations which an in-
dividual owes to authorities other than
government. And there are other well de-
fined obligations to the government. But
when government permits its powers to
be shorn away and handed around to this
or that organization or association wholly
private in nature, the very nature of that
government is changed.
Philosophical writers have a name for
the new form of government which
emerges from the sort of thing that has
happened in the Petrillo case. It is plural-
ism, and there have been learned volumes
by sincere people which say that this
form of sliced-up nation is inevitable.
HOW IT WORKS
Those who advocate pluralism vary
greatly in what they advocate. Some mere-
ly see that in a nation like ours, many
activities are carried on by groups which
fit, more or less, into a connected whole,
with the government as the top authority.
Others would delegate to these groups
most of the activities and authority now
exercised by government, leaving Uncle
Sam nothing much to do but to keep the
lighthouses and carry the mail.
The test is the extent to which power
exercised by a private association takes
to itself matters that belong to the gov-
ernment or are reserved to the citizen.
Petrillo's bargain takes authority from
government on one side and liberty from
the citizen on the other.
With the agreement of the Decca com-
pany, he levies a tax on all purchases of
records. The proceeds go into the union
treasury. The union then conducts a wide-
spread system of unemployment relief.
The public has no say about the distribu-
tion of the tax which it pays, the govern-
ment exercises no supervision. And the
union members apparently have precious
little to say about what happens, either.
They are, in effect, dependent for their
jobs and for their relief upon the master.
ENORMOUS POWER
That this sort of irresponsible growth
of power by groups will, before long, point
toward the transformation of this republic
into a pluralistic state is shown by the
immense growth of unions over the past
few years. Union membership has now
reached 13,000,000. The growth has been
3,000,000 in a year. There is no way to
know the power concentrated in the treas-
uries of the unions, but with the war
windfalls, it must be enormous. And all
of this levying and their final disposition
goes on without government supervision.
These aggregations of power can be
used to force private agreements, to influ-
ence elections and to exact taxes from
members. They operate as states within
a state. They approach not the feeble
beginnings but the threatening reality of
a pluralistic state. A constitutional sys-
tem like ours can hardly be expected to
survive the distribution of power thus
set in motion. Petrillo has simply been
bold enough to push his power to its
logical conclusion.
Copyright, 1943, Chirago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.