SANTA BARBARA, Dec. 29.—Some
days ago, in discussing Gov. Warren's
views, this column pointed out the difference
between the East and West Coast
views of our international obligations
after this war. The more I talk with informed
Californians and Oregonians, the
more clearly this distinction appears. In
the distribution of political and economic
power in the United States, these Western
States will be more important as the
Pacific war proceeds. The people out
here are thinking about these things, and
the nation will do well to listen when
they speak.
It is not surprising that the Easterner
thinks of postwar problems as essentially
European. Europeans settled the
East and they brought from Europe the
beginnings of that civilization which gave
birth to the United States as a nation.
The people of the East properly point to
the significance of that heritage.
WHAT IT HAS PRODUCED
Europe, it is true, has created a magnificent
culture. It has given us most of
our ideas of civil and religious liberty.
But it has also produced the greatest
tyrannies of mind and body. Its Jewish
and Christian leaders have produced
great religions. But Europe has also produced
the most fiendish persecutions of
these religions. Europeans have dreamed
of peace but have awakened in time to
start most of the greatest of the world’s
wars.
All this the Westerner realizes and so,
instinctively, he shrinks from the thought
of a world peace anchored only in European
politics.
He realizes something else. With the
vast expansion of means of communication
and transportation, Eastern Asia and
the Pacific have been brought more
directly within the orbit of the world’s
international problems of organization.
And, from his point of view, he sees more
clearly that the center of the world’s land
mass and population is in Asia. Europe,
in that perspective, is a peninsula jutting
out of that mass, itself a pattern of
smaller peninsulas the peninsula of Europe
is rich in products of the mind, but
poor in material substance.
AMPLER MINDS NEEDED
Before too much time passes, all America
will be shifting toward this western
viewpoint. Hitler will be gone, Hirohito
will remain. The business of polishing
him off will be, in the main, our own special
war. The peace which follows that
must be one in which our influence will
be more positive than that which will
rearrange Europe. Vast new economic
problems and opportunities will open up
that will dwarf those of our concern in
the Atlantic. So, obviously, the peace
cannot be made, as was that of 1919, by
three European politicians and a Virginian.
The peace made then gave Japan the
means to shatter Asiatic peace. There
will have to be ampler minds and experience
in the peacemaking after Japan is
beaten than we had at Versailles.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.