Can Lewis
Survive Crisis?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Underlying the swift-moving sequences
of events in Washington, New York,
Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Alabama
and Kentucky, there has been apparent
from the first the fixed determination
of John L. Lewis to make Mr. Roosevelt
do the job of labor leading this time. No
other hypothesis seems to fit all angles
of the situation: and, spelled out, that
means that from the beginning John
Lewis indicated that he would not only
enjoy seeing Roosevelt take strong meas-
ures but would like to hurt Mr. Roosevelt's
chances for 1944 if he could.
It was plain from the outset that Mr.
Lewis, who is no fool, had bigger things
in mind even than tossing the W.L.B.
on the junk pile. He had already proved
equal to the task of demolishing one gov-
ernment agency—the National Defense
Mediation Board. He had already re-
trieved himself from the position of isola-
tion in the labor movement into which
Roosevelt and Murray had forced him
after the Roosevelt-Lewis falling out, for
both Murray and Green were compelled
to follow his lead in opposition to the
wage stabilization formula. All his tac-
tics were obviously directed at a far
greater objective—obliging Mr. Roosevelt
to use extreme weapons, preferably
something from the arsenal of the dic-
tatorships.
LEWIS' FINESSE
So great was Lewis' finesse in all this
that even the shrewdest observers could
not charge him with pushing Roosevelt.
He seemed, rather, merely to let the
miners go natural. Lewis is the leader
of the miners up to a point, and by the
middle of last week that point proved
to be one from which they knew no
way of turning back.
The spreading strike had not been or-
dered, so there was no place the govern-
ment could quietly and easily take hold.
Lewis had only to refrain from interven-
ing in any way to achieve the crisis.
Once the strikers began, like the German
mobilization in 1914, they made the clash
inevitable because there were no orders
to turn back their army. Every averted
strike and every terminated strike has
required some sort of intervention, ei-
ther from the government or the officers
of the U.M.W., and when the latter didn't
move, then the government had to.
In all its efforts to prevent or terminate
strikes, the government has never had
to coerce workers in any real sense. In
the last war, as in this, it has taken over
plants. Beyond that, the farthest it has
gone was to threaten Bridgeport ma-
chinists in the last war with blacklisting
in the employment service and with the
draft where the draft was applicable.
Throughout, the philosophy of adjust-
ment of labor disputes by government in
this country has always rested basically
on the supposition that strikers would
not go beyond the point where mild and
polite pressures would move them,
A GREATER ISSUE
In recent years it has readily gone be-
yond that point with respect to employ-
ers, of course. There the remedy is to
seize the plant—the same remedy, curi-
ously, which has been applied against
strikers. But the fundamental assump-
tion is that mild "democratic" procedure
would always terminate a troublesome
strike. But what happens if there is a
large body of strikers holding for a
great length of time an opinion which
differs from that of the government it-
self?
The President's "hold-the-line" order,
justified though it was, gave Lewis the
opportunity to hold that mild democratic
procedure would not be used to terminate
this crisis. So he permitted the demo-
cratic assumption to be challenged by the
miners. His course was to let the situa-
tion get as ugly as possible in order to
make as many people as possible share
his own unfaltering size-up of the picture.
Mr. Lewis has done his utmost to lose
Mr. Roosevelt votes in one sector of the
population on which he must count very
heavily for support if he decides to make
the run again. The question is whether
Mr. Lewis has not gained support for
Mr. Roosevelt in many other sectors.
For this matter transcends political in-
terests and calculations. There are values
at stake far more important than the po-
litical fortunes of any person or group.
Copyright. 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Terrible Threat
Kansas City Times
Nazi spokesmen are in such a flutter
over the terrific raiding of Berlin that
they are threatening to bomb not only
British but American cities. Tut, tut.
Are they really going to bring the lost
German luftwaffe into the open?
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.