What of Shipyard
Future in U.S.?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
PORTLAND (Or.) Dec. 22.—"The transition period here is at the turning point," is the way Edgar F. Kaiser puts it. But the meaning of Mr. Kaiser's remark is clearly that the peak of ship production has been reached, and that gradual and orderly tapering off is the next order of things.
Edgar Kaiser is the very competent son of Henry Kaiser, shipbuilder extraordinary. He runs his father's Oregon, Swan Island and Vancouver shipyards at this center of the industry. The tremendous record that these yards have made is too well known to need repetition. Before Pearl Harbor the United States had about 10,500,000 deadweight tons of shipping; at the present rate of construction; it will have 50,000,000 in 1944. When Germany cracks, this country not only will be the chief maritime power of the world, but will have half the world's tonnage. And in this job Kaiser and Portland have had a big hand.
There is something in the conservative bent of Oregon that sets people here to thinking about what is going to happen when this mammoth new industry begins to taper off. The question takes three forms. First, what will be the effect of the transition period when thousands of men and women will be released from jobs? Second, what will be the effect of the transition upon Portland as a shipbuilding center? Third, what will be the maritime policies of the United States after the war? It is easy to see that the second of these questions can be answered only after the third is determined.
Kaiser's yards here employ some 05,000 men and women.
The first effect of a reduction of the working force will be an increase in efficiency. Absenteeism will decline when jobs are not so plentiful. On Jan. 1, the plants here will go on a six-day week. This will not mean a real reduction in working hours, since the workers already get a day off each week. But the new order will throw all of the workers off on the same day, which will tax to the utmost the city's stores and places of amusement.
The shipbuilding people here hope, of course, that there will remain a considerable shipbuilding industry after the tapering-off period. China already is in the market for 400 ships for coastal and river trade. Apparently, the Chinese are eager to get these ships as soon as possible, so that they will not be dependent upon foreign shipping, including that of Great Britain. Norway has lost most of its quite very important tanker fleet. It is eager to replace these ships from American yards. The Dutch will need tanker and cargo ships and have indicated a desire to buy them in the United States. Russia knows the capacities of the Portland yards and will be shopping around.
Whether these possibilities actually materialize depends upon the future policies of the government, with its huge fleet of vessels surviving the war. Nothing very clear about its purposes has yet been indicated. Possibly, it looks upon these ships chiefly as being valuable for bargaining material at the peace table. In any event, if the government decides to sell or give away ships to needy foreign powers, it can make hash of most of the American shipbuilding industry.
Portland, as a city, is no reed shaken by the wind. On its background of Oregon conservatism, it had a pretty solid and balanced life. The war has boosted its population a third, but it can, without distress, make its way back to normal conditions.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.