Forced Savings
Idea Combated
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In the face of the fine public response
to the Third War Loan drive, the revival
of talk of compulsory savings in various
quarters is most regrettable. That idea
suggests one of the major features of the
decline of liberty under totalitarian Eu-
rope. They had a word for it there; they
spoke of it as "blocked" money. Ameri-
cans don't like blocked money of any
kind. They will pay taxes and they will
save. But deep in their nature is an in-
stinct to exercise complete sovereignty
over their money. It is dangerous to fool
around with that instinct.
The most eminent advocate of compul-
sory saving among Anglo-American econ-
omists is John Maynard Keynes. Keynes
has his following among Americans but,
fortunately, Secretary Morgenthau up to
now has not been a member of that com-
pany. The Secretary is not infallible, but
his resistance to compulsory savings has
been in accord with American facts.
ENGLISH CONDITIONS
Despite rumors of new tax plans, Mr.
Morgenthau is still confident that "before
this drive is over, America will give the
answer that they want to do it the volun-
teer way." This, coupled with a fiat de-
nial by Mr. Paul that the Treasury has
any such plan, would indicate that there
has been no change in Mr. Morgenthau's
position.
In suggesting the idea, Keynes was
thinking in terms of the psychology of
the English people and of English condi-
tions. The proposal for compulsory sav-
ings is based upon the economy of a coun-
try in which there is no such mass pri-
vate insurance savings as the United
States has. There is not yet a "social se-
curity" psychology here. In Great Britain
there has been, and there is no such
capacity for civilian production as we
have. English civilian production is lower
by 20 to 25 per cent than before the war.
This situation, plus mounting war ex-
penditures, creates a dangerous source of
inflation. On our side, there is a more
satisfactory curve of civilian production,
and saving at a very considerable level.
The danger in compulsory savings here
is that it would add little to real savings,
but it would dull the economic mentality
that has produced vast purchases of bonds
and stamps, and it would, no doubt, re-
duce savings bank deposits. Compulsory
savings might, as a matter of fact, pro-
duce the very opposite reaction to what
its sponsors expect.
AMERICAN THRIFT
It would seriously impair the honorable
obligation of many employers and their
employees to set aside 10 per cent of their
pay. It would seriously hit the present liv-
ing standards of the millions who have
had no real war increase in pay. It would
introduce an undesirable spirit of compe-
tition and regimentation in our war sav-
ings. People will expect that this form of
compulsion is only a beginning; the hoard-
ing of money and commodities would be
an inevitable reaction.
Above all, such a step would be a con-
fession of the failure of the fine effort
made by those working for the Treasury
to convince Americans that they can, by
voluntary effort, win the war and pre-
serve the peace—an effort unparalleled in
the history of any nation.
What is needed now is an evaluation of
the economic and psychological effects of
the new taxes already imposed. What has
been their impact upon savings, upon
absenteeism and upon the quality of spend-
ing?
Certainly, the American spirit of thrift
is a value which should not be impaired,
now or in the future.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.