Getting Old Age
Out of Politics
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
SACRAMENTO.—The old age pension,
headache is at last on its way out of
California politics; Governor Earl War-
ren is moving fast toward finally ridding
the state of it. He is taking the first
bloom of his administration—the only
possible time to do it. The job has been
crying to be done for years. It can only
be done while all factions and groups
are still friendly to the new Governor
and what Warren is doing about it is
exceedingly gratifying to thoughtful citizens
of both parties in the State.
The long wrangle over the old folks’
has added no luster to California’s name
throughout the nation. It has brought
to light dozens of weird schemes and
organizations. Some of these infections
have spread far beyond the State. For
their prevalence California has been
blamed. Many State elections have swung
on the old-age pension issue which, like
prohibition, has a way of obscuring everything
else. California’s Governor is determined
to eliminate the source of the disease.
WARREN’S VIEWS
Warren has appointed a committee to
get his ideas into workable form for the
Legislature. Every interested group is
represented on this committee. There are
two labor groups, the Townsend people,
the ham-and-eggers, the farmers, business-
men and both political parties. The Governor
would do well to lock up these people and
hang on to the key until they reach a
unanimous verdict.
Governor Warren has been frank in
expressing his own views on the subject.
He believes that the present rate of $40
a month is too low with prices where
they are. He also objects to the inflexible
conditions of this stipend, because under
the law whatever the beneficiaries earn,
or have, or get is deducted.
This, he says, leads to humiliating pok-
ings about in the private affairs of people.
Small earnings, little gifts from relatives
or friends, even the possession of
insignificant heirlooms are matters for
bureaucratic inquiry. The grant of a pension
should be a matter of right, he believes. It
should be paid on the single qualification
of age. That would preserve the incentive
of saving in productive years and of work
for pay in old age when work is available.
TO MEET REALITIES
It is safe to say that the pension legislation
when agreed on will meet the realities of
California. There is no disposition here
to borrow or copy such foreign proposals
as the Beveridge Plan.
The Governor firmly believes that old-
age help is essentially a problem for national
legislation. Inequalities among the States
visit injustices upon the places where the
most generous laws exist. California would
be the most conspicuous victim of migrations
touched off by the search for higher benefits.
The legislation to be passed in Cali-
fornia, however, will probably provide
that the State will meet Federal benefits
when Congress does its share. This reverses
the idea of the Federal government, which
makes provision contingent on State action.
It puts the shoe on the other foot.
With this problem out of the way, Cali-
fornia will be in a position to make provisions
to anticipate the postwar readjustments
which the return of many thousands of
soldiers will necessitate. Plans to meet the
situation are also occupying Governor
Warren’s mind. The future of the soldiers’
claims upon their home States was considerably
kicked around in political campaigns all over
the country last fall. California is in fairly
good shape to deal with those when they
come. It has a sizable surplus in the
treasury which prudence suggests should
be kept for the unknown necessities of
the period after the war.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
What, No Honors?
Chicago Daily News
Veteran taxpayers are still waiting for
awards of medals from Washington for
distinguished services.
Oversight
Chicago Daily News
A nice home girl confesses herself un-
kissed, thus horrifying our conscience-
stricken young soldiers.
Horrors!
Philadelphia Inquirer
So it’s women taxi drivers now? At
last they’ve got the men in the back seat.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.