The Gay Danes
Time Their Revolt
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
On the question of the immediate importance of Denmark's unrest, this column has sought the informed opinion of Dr. Julius Hirsch. Dr. Hirsch was price administrator for the Reich after the end of the last war and subsequently he was Secretary of Commerce. A professor and public official, he was well known in Europe. In 1933, Nazi oppression swept him into Denmark, where he lectured in the Danish Faculty of Commerce for more than seven years before coming to this country.
Shakespeare, through his Hamlet, says Dr. Hirsch, has done the Danes a sad turn. Melancholy is not one of their dominant characteristics. Their gay, practical and ironic disposition has even provided for naive English sightseers a "grave" of the sad prince. "Perhaps the ashes of a cat lie there; certainly not those of a Hamlet who did not live at all," he observes. "Their charming Phelias find much besides their prayerbooks to answer their sighs. The Danish divorce rate is the highest in Europe," says Hirsch, and the Danes are probably the best educated.
TIME FOR REVOLT
Beyond education is a high intelligence. As he says, Denmark has three provinces —Jutland, the islands and its brains. When this purest of Germanic peoples heard Hitler scream about the Nordic master race, they laughed. When Hitler, in preparation for this war, offered nonaggression pacts to its neighbors, only Denmark and Lithuania accepted. "What good will it do?" said the opposition. "What harm will it do?" answered the Socialist Prime Minister Staunig.
Hitler, of course, violated his promise not to invade. The Danes took it all in stride. Their geographical position gave them access to the Swedish radio. Germany could not prevent that. They sang patriotic songs, neglected to fraternize with Germans and, in the elections last April, gave their Nazi party only the usual 1 per cent of the vote. With each German setback in the war, their contempt has become more apparent.
According to Dr. Hirsch, the final realization that liberation was just around the corner came with the smashing of Hamburg. When the first bombs began to fall upon Hamburg, sabotage began to break out in Danish factories working on German war goods. Five thousand Danish workers returned from Hamburg. "We were not hired to die," they announced.
MOELLER POPULAR
Christmas Moeller, former chairman of the Danish Conservative party, was removed from office in 1940 because he believed that Denmark should have chosen the course of Norway. Shortly after, he went to Sweden and since then he has been talking to his people by radio. He is immensely popular. When he left, in the summer of 1941, the Danes greeted each other with "Merry Christmas," a greeting they continued to use for some time.
The part the United Nations have played in the present uprising is not yet clear. Suffice it to say that England has always had a large place in Danish affections. She was their best customer. Since 1940, Danish farmers sold their stuff to the Germans at very high prices. To pay for it, however, the Germans borrowed the money from the Danish National Bank. Germany gave the Danes little in the form of raw materials except what was necessary to keep armament factories going. This added to the undercover bitterness. Since the Danish nation has none of Hamlet's suicidal tendencies, it may be that the present uprising is not without intelligent calculation and timing. Whether it means that they believe that Germany is nearing the end or whether they believe that the United Nations are going to attack Norway will, it may be assumed, be apparent before long.
Copyright, 1941, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.