President Roosevelt's humor will never
make people forget Mark Twain, but he
did get off a good one when he was dis-
cussing the traveling Senators' criticisms
in his press conference. Asked about a
report that some of the British in Africa
were wearing American uniforms because
trousers provided better mosquito pro-
tection than shorts, the President observed
wryly that if it concerned a question of
pants, it would be good for a Senate de-
bate, while trousers called for a closed
session.
In the discussion that the Senators
have provoked, however, a distinction has
been overlooked which involved much
more than the difference between shorts
and trousers. The question of whether
Senators, especially Senator Lodge, were
wrong to criticize Russia is something
quite different from the question whether
Russia is wrong in not entering the war
against Japan.
A SUGGESTION
Some Americans, including the Presi-
dent, underrate the capacity of Russia
and England to take criticism. Those two
nations are not neurotic adolescents. They
have been around a long time and are
as able to take it as to dish it out. If the
United States were weak, helpless and
fighting for life, we might do well to con-
sider every word we uttered about our
allies. But to be perfectly blunt about it,
beating Hitler means much more to Eng-
land and Russia than it does to us.
Let's have the whole story of the five
inquiring Senators in an open session of
the Senate. Then let's have the answers
from the administration, from England
and from Russia. Then let's print the
whole thing for Americans to ponder.
What has happened, instead, is that the ex-
cellent story of the Senators has come to
the people only in disconnected pieces.
No more moral disapprobation attaches
to Senator Lodge's suggestion about Si-
berian bases than to Russia's repeated
suggestion about a second front. Quite
obviously, Russia will do what is best for
her about Siberia, just as England and
America will do what is best for them
about a second front.
GAINING FRIENDSHIP
By not attacking Russia, Japan made
possible the defeat of Hitler on the east-
ern front. The Russians, as well as the
Japanese, had learned two things by vir-
tue of some preliminary "short-of-war"
fighting on the Siberian frontier in 1930
and 1940. First, that the Russian forces
were qualitatively superior to the Japa-
nese, and second, that the Japanese could
not risk a winter campaign in Siberia.
The latter fact enabled Stalin to move
great Siberian forces to Stalingrad in the
early winter of 1942, to defeat the Ger-
mans there and thus turn the whole
course of the war.
Russia's Far Eastern diplomacy is prob-
ably based upon a few extremely simple
assumptions. Unless, after the defeat of
Japan, the United States or Great Britain
want to take over Manchuko or Korea,
Russia may be invited to take them,
whether Russia ultimately fights Japan
or not. These territories can hardly be
assigned to Japan unless we want another
war in a few years. And China is hardly
stable enough to take them over. So Rus-
sia stands to gain in any event.
Unless Americans are to lose their per-
spective entirely, they must be brought
to the realization that Great Britain and
Russia are primarily concerned with pro-
tecting their own interests. To recognize
this and to give some thought to our own
interests is not to lose their friendship.
On the contrary it will probably gain us
their respect, which is just as important
as friendship in this hard world.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.