Earl Warren's
First Year on Job
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
SACRAMENTO, Dec. 25,---Sixteen years
ago, writing from Oakland, the author
of this article stated that Earl Warren
was the best District Attorney in the
United States, Warren was new in that
job then, just as he is new in the Governorship now. My conclusion after two
visits to California this year is that Warren
ranks with the two or three best Governors
in this country.
A number of readers of this column
have written asking for information and
appraisals of the various Republicans
mentioned for the Presidency. This piece
is by way of a starter at replying. From
time to time, other Presidential prospects
will be described. It may well be stated
at the outset that such descriptions are
not intended to express preferences,
HE DOES HIS JOB
Californians have known Earl Warren
a long time; and the longer they know
him the better they like this attractive,
personable man. He has a way of taking
a job seriously, working at it without
fuss or turmoil, and getting it done. He
considered the situation carefully before
he ran for Governor. New Deal Democrats
had done as they wished in the State for a
long time. Their voting registration was
overwhelmingly superior to the Republicans,
Gov. Olson was a resourceful rabble-
rouser with, apparently, the full support
of New Deal Washington. Some faint-
hearted Republicans thought it was impossible to win the Governorship. Warren
accepted the challenge, both of these fellow Republicans and of the overconfident
Democrats. He ran on his own and entered
both primaries, carried the Republican
and almost beat Olson in the Democratic
primaries. Warren then won the election
by a handsome majority. He attained office with no embarrassing obligations.
Even those groups which have advocated
extreme social reforms in the State
recognize Warren's honest intention to
do what he can to further the so-called
social gains without wrecking the credit
and stability of the State. As an administrator, Warren has surrounded himself with
young, competent department heads. It is
a pleasure to watch them in operation. State
business clicks with evidences of top-drawer
administrative direction and warmly enthusiastic cooperation in the ranks.
AS FOR THE PRESIDENCY
Whenever a man is mentioned for the
Presidency, the question is asked, "What
does he know about or think about international affairs?" To answer this question in
connection with Warren, let this be said,
particularly to the people in the East: There
is a disposition among Easterners to view
the international problem as something that
has its head in Europe and stretches eastward
with long and diminishing tails to China, Japan
and the Pacific. That is how they see the war.
Out here, the international animal has
its head in the Western Pacific, and Europe
is way back there—a peninsula at the rear of
the great Asiatic continent. Take your choice
as to which way you figure out the animal, but
bear in mind that the facts of geography, the
probable destiny of the United States and the
balance of economic concern are on the side
of the West Coast point of view.
Earl Warren is not the man to "ad lib"
opinions on international affairs on every
occasion. But he knows the subject as well
as any Republican, and no one was more
quietly influential at Mackinac last summer. His
background is that of a man who has lived his
life in an enlightened urban center in close
touch with a great university community and in
association with people who have pondered
international affairs as much as any group in
the United States. Warren believes in international cooperation, in the assumption of
definite responsibilities by the United States,
and because he knows the Pacific and the Far
East so well, he brings to these questions
knowledge and a point of view that few Easterners can have.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.