Grave Outlook for Our Foods
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In light of the facts coming from two authoritative sources this week, it is no wonder that the administration arranged for secrecy at the meetings at the Hot Springs conference. And no wonder the President got out his most glittering generalities to greet the delegates.

The United States is facing a food curtailment in 1943 that may shake the gold leaf off the best of the President's phrase! Former President Hoover, whose knowledge of the food situation is formidable drew an extremely grave picture of the food prospect when he spoke to the country last Tuesday evening. He pointed out that in the seven years between the harvests of 1932 and 1930, the government reduced the acreage of 17 leading crops by 47,000,000 acres, and that those 17 crops comprise 95 per cent of our total harvested area. In 1941, we undertook lend-lease to feed other nations. Yet we continued to pay some farmers to restrict production in the plantings of 1941 and 1942. Meanwhile, other farmers began to expand production, but by 1942 we had recovered only 9,000,000 of the 47,000,000-acre loss. Thus the ever-normal becomes the ever subnormal granary.

'THIS YEAR LOOKS BAD'

Nature smiled on us in 1942. We are still eating what remains of a bumper crop. But 1943 looks bad. Hoover states that grain crops will fall from 10 to 15 per cent below last year, and in wheat and rye the decrease will be 26 per cent. In Canada, the North American situation is described by saying that 1942 had a long and good season; that three weeks ago, the 1943 prospects were for a good but short season; and that now even the good part is in grave doubt.

We cannot remedy the situation until the crop of 1944. By next spring, whatever the course of the war, our belts will be pulled tighter and tighter. If Hitler is destroyed, our obligations will be no less, for there will be millions in Europe with whom we shall have to share.

For this situation, neither the farmer nor the weather nor the floods can be assigned major blame. The responsibility rests upon misconceived government policies before the war, upon mismanaged man power and production policies in the war, and upon chaos in price controls and rationing.

ADDING MINUSES

Supplementing the Hoover statement is the New York State Emergency Food Commission's report, which Governor Dewey says "screams of crisis." That report asserts that the farmers have finished only 12 per cent of the normal 73 per cent of their planting. This means that the millions of New Yorkers are confronted by an increasingly difficult food problem, and that the food contribution of the State to the rest of the world is in grave jeopardy.

In striking contrast to these grim facts is the pleasant White House greeting to the food conference delegates. When you feel the need of products of those 38,000,000 lost acres, remember that the delegates "surveyed with courage and with realism the magnitude of those problems." When you are tempted to get impatient about the fact that the faster the amount of food declines, the more Washington agencies are created to control it (there are nine now,) remember that "our ultimate objective" is "to build for ourselves, meaning all men everywhere, a world in which each individual human being shall have the opportunity to die secure in the knowledge that his children, and their children, shall have the same opportunities."

This optimism is based upon the curious mathematical proposition that when you pool a sufficient number of needs you can cancel those needs. But standard mathematics tells us that when you add minus quantities you still get a minus quantity, and a bigger one.

Copyright, 1943. Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.