'Silent Partner'
Fear Aroused
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The refusal of the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation to permit the Chi-
cago & North Western Railway Co. to pay
off its debt to the government superficially
suggests the elements of old-time melo-
drama. The rich man has a mortgage on
the place; the crops are better, and the
money is ready, but old Money-bags won't
budge from the parlor sofa because he in-
tended to marry the daughter from the
very first; her tears are pitiable, but futile.
Below the superficial facts, however, we
begin to see the emergence of a pattern
of government policy vastly more ominous
to our economic system than the fact
which threatens the young heroine.
In 1935 the North Western filed a peti-
tion in bankruptcy. In 1939, the Inter-
state Commerce Commission submitted a
plan of reorganization which, after amend-
ment in 1940, was approved by the United
States District Court for the Northern Dis-
trict of Illinois. Under this plan, the
R.F.C., instead of being paid off in cash,
was to receive certain specified securities.
DECLARED 'UNSEEMLY'
On April 27, 1943, the C. & N. W. sought
permission in the Federal District Court
to file a petition for authority to pay in
full its debt of some $48,000,000 to the
R.F.C., and to secure the release of securi-
ties worth some $135,000,000. A tremen-
dous improvement in its cash position had
taken place, the road said, which would
enable it to pay off the loan and still have
some $33,000,000 left for working capital.
This week the court, denying the road's
petition, declared that it would be "un-
seemly" for it to interfere with the reor-
ganization plan approved by the I.C.C.,
the Circuit Court and the United States
Supreme Court.
A melancholy and yet infinitely telling
commentary on the position of the road
was made by Samuel H. Cody, its vice-
president and general counsel, back in
1939: "We put up with the R.F.C. some-
thing over $110,000,000 of collateral for
our loan. Of course that meant a weak-
ening of our financial structure, and we
would have been better off to have taken
bankruptcy or gone into receivership back
there in 1932 when our maturity came
along."
IN 'PARTNERSHIP'
But that is all part of the language of
"might have been" now. Meanwhile, the
story is obviously developing a moral of
far more general application, for the R.F.C.,
originally created to tide over an emer-
gency, apparently lives on to function as
a quite different agency. Its new and per-
haps permanent place in our system of
government is not quite clear. If it is not
simply mechanical and automatic, it is a
mighty agent of government intervention-
ism in private enterprise. Having taken
advantage of the assistance initially of-
fered, at least one railroad now finds itself
in "partnership" with the R.F.C., for some
years to come—a consideration it did not
plan for and had no notice of, as a possible
eventuality.
So it seems that the R.F.C.'s will to sur-
vive is not unlike that manifested by a
great many New Deal institutions which,
having achieved their professed purposes,
are carried along by ambition or inertia
or both. Parallel cases, not so serious to
business, are the Farm Security Admin-
istration and the National Youth Admin-
istration. In the case of the F.S.A., many
families have attained security through
government aid and have thereupon been
repeatedly solicited to destroy their secu-
rity by taking on more loans, and the
National Youth Administration, having
tided students through a depression, wants
to keep on as a protector of youth in gen-
eral.
Another pertinent subject of reflection
suggests itself. What of a government
which has repeatedly failed to hold the
line against inflation, while it permits
some of its agencies to increase their
power by means of an inflation which
makes some of the positions it took a few
years back more advantageous? Perhaps
that's why no quantity of postwar bally-
hoo can conceal the fact that business can
do little planning until we know what
sort of economic system we shall have
after the war.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Nurses' Prayer
BY ROSE NAZARETH
I beg to be worthy of my profession.
Grant me the patience to perform each
day my duties in a cheerful frame of mind,
without prejudice of race, color or creed.
Guide me in mind and energy in help-
ing and inspiring those less fortunate.
Lead me not into temptation of negli-
gence, the root of all sadness.
Above all, dear Lord, give me courage.
In fair or in stormy weather, in dark-
ness or in light, and faithful to the end
I'll stand by.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.