'Home of Fads'
in a New Dither
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CLEVELAND, Oct. 27.—Here in Cleve-
land where Food-for-Freedom, Inc., is put-
ting on a show for Henry Wallace dwells
a hardy bunch of malcontents. I have
known most of them for nigh on to 50
years, and I have a single conclusion:
they are for any idea that is against any-
thing else and when they get their so-
called leaders into power, they are against
them, too. That is what Mr. Wallace's cru-
sade means.
Two days of hot, panting conference are
scheduled here. But just what the boys
and girls are against and what they are
for, besides food and freedom, is not clear.
The personnel of the local committee
suggests a refrain familiar to this town.
The local chairman blows his battered
bugle to the refrain in appealing for labor
attendance: "Something better for Mr. Lit-
tle Feller" and something terrible for
"our American breed of Fascist."
ALL THE OLD FACES
That gives Mr. Wallace something to
work on. No doubt he will rise to the
occasion. It also gives something to Wal-
ter Reuther of the C.I.O., another speaker,
to Robert W. Parisius of the Office of
Foreign Relief, and to our old friend,
Gardner Jackson, whom the Dies com-
mittee described and who has been here
working on the preparations for this tin-
horn Armageddon.
The political significance of this meet-
ing is fairly obvious. Here in Cleveland,
40 years ago, single tax and municipal
ownership won its first big victory. In
1920 the late Warren Stone, chief of the
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers,
launched a farm-labor movement. Here, in
1924, the La Follette convention was held.
Cleveland was the only important city
carried by La Follette that year.
Hence, politically, this is the old
farmer-labor movement come to life. Its
whipping boys will be the railroads (Wal-
lace), the big corporations (Reuther),
some of the more conservative farm or-
ganizations and "big fellers" generally.
WORTH WHILE WATCHING
It may be worth while to watch and
see whether this affair means that the
assorted opponents of everything are us-
ing this means of protesting against
Roosevelt. Possibly they hope to capital-
ize on the present strain between the ad-
ministration in Washington and labor.
It is characteristic of American radicals
that, sooner or later, they turn against
their heroes when they get into power.
Over 40 years ago they won the Mayoral-
ty for Tom L. Johnson and turned against
him when he conceived it to be his job
to run a city government instead of a
soup kitchen. Maybe these boys are feel-
ing about F.D.R. what they felt about
Johnson.
But to surmise that they will bolt the
great leader in 1944 is dangerous. The
President has an infinite capacity to hitch
such malcontents to his star. In 1944
there will be no other star for their kind
to hitch to.
Probably this Cleveland to-do is just a
lot of farmer-labor saber rattling to warn
F.D.R. that he cannot succeed without
them. But, incidentally, it shows us how
old the New Deal really is and how sterile
of issue is the leftist movement in this
country. "Sockless" Jerry Simpson would
feel perfectly at home here.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.