Wartime Labor
Policy Evolving
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In the midst of the Senate scramble
over the Connally bill, Senator Barkley
said, "It is criminal to try to write a
labor policy under such conditions." That
remark might be made with equal truth
of what the House is now doing to the
Connally bill. Yet it is better to have
Congress legislating in this fashion to
get what promises to be a patchwork
piece of legislation providing a national
wartime labor policy than to have a
policy shaped solely by administrative
caprice and jitteryness.
That is what the uproar in Congress
means. Both the Senate and the House,
alarmed by the prospect of another coal
strike, have exhibited their lack of confidence in administration methods thus
far and their determination to put some
spine into government policy on wartime
labor disputes.
Obviously, what will emerge will be
wholly satisfactory to no one. In fact,
it is believed in Washington that if the
more severe House measure finally receives the approval of the Senate, the
President will veto the bill. But in view
of the temper of the Senate, that is not
likely to happen. We shall have a compromise which the President may well
accept. For if he does not accept it, his
action will ring down the curtain on the
National War Labor Board. All that will
save the N.W.L.B. at this stage of affairs
will be the provision of some sort of legal
basis for its work. That the Connally bill,
even as rewritten in the House, would
provide.
THE ORIGINAL BILL
The original Connally bill would permit the seizure by the government of
any strikebound plant making war materials or things useful in national defense. It validates N.W.L.B. decisions,
provides that either the government or
the employees may get their claims before the board, and gives the board the
power to subpena witnesses and data.
In cases where government operation
of a seized plant is involved, criminal
penalties are attached to apply to those
who coerce or induce work stoppages or
who give guidance to a strike or funds
to support strikers. To make clear that
it is not a crime for an individual worker
to quit, the provision of the British
Trades Disputes Act is used which says
that no individual can be prosecuted under the act "by reason only of his having
ceased work or having refused to continue work or to accept employment."
The House draft not only takes cognizance of the chief criticisms made of
the Connally measure but materially
strengthens the present powers of the
N.W.L.B. Unlike the Connally bill, it is
aimed at strikes themselves rather than
the premises where they occur.
MANY MORE TEETH
In short, the solution the House version offers is not limited to the seizure
and operation of struck plants by the
government. It provides for a secret ballot of union members before a strike
can be called in war plants. It requires
that all labor organizations register with
the N.L.R.B. and give full financial statements or receipts. It prohibits strikes in
war plants for 60 days after the N.W.L.B.
takes over jurisdiction of labor disputes,
and outlaws jurisdictional disputes, secondary boycotts and sympathetic strikes
in war plants.
Clearly, this much more drastic measure, which embodies great hunks of the
Smith bill passed by the House just before Pearl Harbor and later blanketed
by the Senate Committee on Education
and Labor, is far from ideal legislation.
As it now stands it gets well beyond
the purposes of the Connally bill. But
those who are working on it, obviously
having in mind the prospect of compromise that lies ahead, are intent on the
ultimate formulation of a Congressional
policy on strikes that will have a force
and vigor sadly lacking from all government measures to date.
Such a compromise bill will rescue
the administration from the lamentable
confusion of orders and declarations in
which the challenge of John L. Lewis
threw it.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.