Russ Policy
Dates Well Back
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Frequently published inferences that
Stalin has absented himself from the
Roosevelt-Churchill conferences because it
will deal mainly with the Far East is so
small a part of the obvious explanation as
to be wholly misleading. The key to
Stalin's attitude is more general and is
almost wholly on the surface. In the
main, Stalin steers clear of the palavers of
the two men because he is running a war
and is, at the moment, extremely busy.
His war against Germany he regards as
quite independent in tactics and location
from the American-British attack upon
Germany. It may well turn out to be
somewhat different in its objective as
well.
But beyond this immediate reason are
circumstances in basic Russian policy and
tradition that this country should comprehend
thoroughly if unity of understanding
among the United Nations is to be preserved.
The easiest way is to recognize that
Stalin views himself as a modern Peter the
Great—informed people say that Peter is
Stalin’s hero and inspiration—and the
natural heir of that leader’s politics.
Those policies, which are clear-cut, have
been the key to Russian purposes for two
and a half centuries. What are they?
What is their application to the present
situation?
Peter had two outstanding geographical
ambitions: one to control the Black Sea;
the other, to use his own phrase, to get
“a window on the Baltic.” Over the generations,
these ambitions have been frequent bones
of contention between Russia and Great
Britain. They may be one of the reasons
for Stalin’s distrust of Great Britain now.
The attack upon Finland in 1940 was aimed
at the Baltic egress, and anyone who believes
that a victorious Russia will neglect what it
wants there is deluding himself.
Russia has suffered grievously in this
war because it was open to attack from
the Black Sea. Germany got at Russia
through Rumanian and Bulgarian ports,
as well as by sneak trips through the
Bosporus. Russia can prevent this in
future, even without taking Istanbul, by
getting possession of part of the Rumanian
and Bulgarian seacoast and basing adequate
air power there. There is no rational
reason why this right should be denied by
this country or by Great Britain. In any
event, whether we like it or not, without a
doubt Russia will take what she wants there.
Another of Peter’s principles was never
to fight two wars at once. When he attacked
Sweden to get to the Baltic, he scrupulously
kept his peace with Turkey. Substitute Japan
for Turkey, Germany for Sweden and Stalin
for Peter, and you have the modern situation.
Finally, there was Peter’s desire to dominate,
although not possess, the small Slavic states
to the west of Russia. Here there appears a
very modern factor in which the United States
figures. Politically, those who are attached to
these states, because they or their parents came
from them, are exceedingly important in the
United States. Stalin knows that. Every
American politician knows it, too. There is
evidence that there is much concern in
Washington about the western boundaries of
Russia—a concern which may well become a
matter of friction with our ally. Perhaps Stalin
is a bit distrustful of our diplomacy for that
reason. But unless we expect to be eternally
involved in Central European politics and wars,
we had best recognize Russia’s major contentions
in that part of the world. Certainly this is no
matter to decide by calculations of votes within
the United States.
Fundamentally there is no reason to
fear Russian territorial ambitions on this
side of the world. If ideological invasion is
persisted in through Communist agitation, we
should deal with it here, not in Eastern Europe.
Stalin would probably respect us the more if we
smashed the Communist party, fired all Communists
from public employment and banished every
alien Communist. We should do that whether
he likes it or not. But that should not prevent
us from recognizing the Russian nation’s right
to be safe on its own side of the world.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Understandable
Christian Science Monitor
After carrying a full pack on a 20-mile
hike, Private Jones writes home that he
now understands what they mean when
they said, “The Army will put weight
on a man.”
Pretty Complicated
San Francisco Chronicle
Air speeds now approach the velocity
of sound. Soon, a flyer talking to himself
will have to slow up to catch the drift.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.