It's Too Bad
We Must Worry!
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A card game in officers' quarters may
win battles the next day or so. Diversion
and recreation are vacuum cleaners
for the mind. The movies, according to
firsthand accounts, are making better
fighting men in the South Seas.
But worry is a quite different matter.
Worry among military men wins no battles.
It is therefore disturbing to hear
that military men are worrying about the
fact that businessmen are worrying about
postwar problems. They say that to take
time for postwar planning is to take time
out of production. So we have a complete
cycle of worry: some of us worry
because military men worry because production
men worry. Maybe the business
of worrying should be specialized.
Perhaps we need a Secretary of Worry-
ing.
RESULTS NOTED
Criticism by military men of postwar
study and research has had results, however.
Some concerns are now frowning
on all postwar talk, both for morale reasons
and for industry reasons. They say
they can't get steel for design purposes
and wouldn't have the men available for
it, even if they had the material. Other
industries follow that lead and limit discussion,
for the most part, to the buyers
of their materials. An examination of
current advertising shows that very
clearly.
A typical ad is written to attract the
attention of a manufacturer in an adjacent
industry. It is not generally the exposition
of long-time planning. Usually
it is the reflection of thinking or speculation,
or an extension of developments
which were already going on when war
needs shut off materials for designing or
research.
There is, of course, some designing going
on in a small way—the making of
models of things manufacturers hope to
bring out later. But the large manufacturer
who puts more than a couple of
men to work would soon have difficulties
with the War Manpower Commission, or
the unions, or someone who wanted to
embarrass him. For this reason there is
a certain sterility in postwar discussion
and the public has lost interest in it
these many months. The public is interested
in concrete things, in the shape
of things to come and the models of the
shape of postwar things are not available.
BUILDER OF MORALE
The worry of military people about this
is unnecessary and wasteful. You can't
stop a man from thinking in his leisure
hours about what he's going to do after
the war. The generals can't stop their
soldiers from doing that. It takes the
mind off the hardships and deprivations
of the war. It is, in truth, a builder of
morale. It is no more to be frowned on
than is stamp collecting. It is considerably
more useful than the departmental
mapmaking for which Mr. Ickes has been
criticized.
In any event, military men are no
judges of how to deal with civilian morale;
they were not trained for that. In
the last war it was a professional politician,
Woodrow Wilson, who did most to
brace our morale and destroy that of our
enemies. In this war Stalin, the politician,
has done the best job in that line.
Businessmen have had to make their
living by understanding civilian morale.
They are not lacking in patriotism or determination
to win the war. Let the
military people concentrate on Japs and
Germans. They are best at that.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Cures
Stars and Stripes
The latest claim of the statisticians is
that a few months in the military service
will cure most anything. For instance,
a sailor stopped stuttering when a dive
bomber zoomed down on his destroyer; a
merchant seaman ceased to have trouble
with gout after being nicely toasted for
four days on a raft in equatorial waters; a
tank driver hasn't had another attack of
heartburn since his tank rolled down a
cliff, landed in a brook, and caught fire.
Thanks, we'll stick to aspirin.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.