Public Opinion and the Miners
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It was once believed that a strike could
not succeed unless public opinion generally favored it. Much has happened
during the last few months to shake
that belief. The coal strike, for one thing,
has created currents so complex that
the whole idea needs revision.
From the first, since the dispute began
in March, John L. Lewis has anchored
himself firmly to the belief that the public opinion of the mining regions has
been pretty solidly behind him—more
solidly than in any preceding coal dispute. The "opinion" of which he is thinking is represented by the smaller newspapers in the region and by the expression of local leaders.
Mr. Lewis frankly recognizes that the
opinions expressed by the metropolitan
press in the East are hostile to him, but
he is not concerned with that, for he
conceives of public opinion as regional,
and believes that outside sentiment when
it penetrates to those sections in which
the miners live is discounted as prejudiced and uninformed.
VIEW SHARED BY ROOSEVELT
Curiously, in a broad sense, this view
is shared by Mr. Roosevelt. For 10 years
the President's political strategy has been
to create the impression that the opinions
of large metropolitan newspapers are
biased—"capitalistic," if you will.
Privately he has said innumerable
times that when the press is against
something, the masses of the people are
for it. He has always maintained that
his own judgment of public opinion is
vastly better than the size-up of those
who deal directly and professionally with
it.
The irony of the current situation, now
that the President and Mr. Lewis have
locked horns, lies in Mr. Lewis' skillful
employment of that very technique to
embarrass the government. For when
a political regime creates the basis of a
class society and builds horizontal suspicions among people, it makes it increasingly difficult—if not impossible—
to mobilize a truly national opinion when
the interests of the whole nation are
at stake. Mr. Lewis, therefore, profits
by the 10 years' work of his adversary.
There are other reasons, of course, why
public opinion has provided as little control of this situation. One is that the basic
Lewis claim that the government's machinery to control prices had broken
down struck a sympathetic response
wherever people were buying food. Another is that when a government becomes
all powerful under a war economy, vital
decisions are made without much reference to what the public thinks. The war
must go on, and government cannot stop
to explain everything.
MERELY DEFLECTED
Still a third factor is the government's
lack of unity about how to deal with Mr.
Lewis. In the May 1 crisis, two distinct
official factions attempted to influence
the White House. One wanted the President to crack down, the other to appease.
Mr. Lewis, well aware of this division,
skillfully played one faction against the
other. Mr. Lewis, in short, was striking
against a divided government. He singled
out the weakest link in that government, the N.W.L.B., for the brunt of his
attack. He made it clear that he wanted
to negotiate with Mr. Ickes, and he certainly drove this point home to his striking miners.
So, what we have been unfolding is
not a failure of public opinion, but a
failure of either side to bring public
opinion to bear directly upon the issue.
Had it done so, Mr. Lewis' miners would
have been out of the headlines these
many weeks. The curative power of public opinion has not vanished; it has merely been deflected, and very shrewdly, so
far as Mr. Lewis is concerned, from the
specific question of a strike against the
government.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate,
Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.