Now Comes
a 'Tariff Year'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CHICAGO, Jan. 6.—Does anyone remember
that old political gag about taking the
tariff out of politics? Maybe the authors
of the line believed it. But whoever may
have believed it, nobody has ever practiced
it. Advocating that we take the tariff out
of politics is like suggesting that we take
Presidential elections out of politics.
Maybe the time will come when tariffs
don't figure in campaigns. But that will
be when they cease to have any importance
at all. Until that day, the tariff will remain
the hottest poker in the shop.
Twice in our time it has played a major
part in breaking an administration. It is
getting warm now. The mail shows that.
Any disagreement with the views of
Messrs. Willkie and Wallace on the subject
elicits from apostles of those two gentlemen
burning epistles full of personal vituperation
which is curious in view of the fact that the
men themselves are such valiant advocates of
free criticism. Yes, not only the mail, but
the calendar warns us to get ready for a year
of wrangling over the tariff, for this session
the present tariff powers come up in
Congress for renewal.
DIFFERENT CONDITIONS
That should suggest to Republicans that
they'd better begin thinking seriously about
the record they're going to make on the issue
and how they'd best present it in 1944. The
public is entitled to something more than the
ancient platitudes on the subject.
Industrial and commercial changes which
have been under way for years have cut the
ground from under many, if not all, of the
old tariff arguments. There are States which
50 years ago were solidly protectionist and
which now have industries so efficient, so
advanced in machine technique that they ask
for no protection, but rather free access to
world markets. The late automobile industry
asked nothing of the tariff and did well in
foreign trade while it maintained its workers
at a high living standard.
Fifty years ago the divisions within the
Republican party on the tariff were relatively
unimportant. All elements wanted it high. The
McKinley-Hanna theory of the tariff advocated
protection but wanted to sell goods abroad, too.
The very last public utterance of McKinley
actually favored reciprocity.
That issue was obscured by Theodore
Roosevelt who, with the skill of a great
politician, talked about everything except the
tariff. When the United States began to export
capital in the second decade of this century, as
economists had long predicted, a large element
in the Republican party turned toward more free
trade. In general, these Republicans were of
the so-called "eastern" wing of the party. Their
interests were largely colored by the concerns
of international banking.
SHARP DIVISIONS
In the course of time, sharp divisions
appeared between them, on the one side the
industrialists, on the other the farmers of the
Middle West. The Hawley-Smoot Act so
horrified them that many of them quit their
party and opposed the Republican candidate in
1932. Meanwhile, a number of industries, like
automotive manufacturing and the motion
pictures, found that they needed no tariff
protection. This has widened the breach in
Republican thinking—a difficulty which gives
no promise of diminishing as the war presents
new business problems and opportunities.
What is needed now is a complete review of
the tariff issue in light of the future. To the
Republican party this means a formula which
will offer legitimate protection to American
living standards, genuine reciprocal agreements,
flexibility in application, scientific and impartial
collection of facts by a government agency,
means for adequate and continuous public
hearings and final Congressional control over
reciprocal treaties.
The present Roosevelt-Hull system aims at
some of these principles, but not all. But since
Republican members of Congress are going to
have to face the issue squarely before the Trade
Agreements Act expires next June 12, they may
as well recognize that it will not be sound policy
to reject out of hand the administration's request
that the act be extended. It is possible to modify
it in such a way as to achieve the difficult
reconciliation of enlarged trade, flexibility and
protection.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.