Who's Fooling
Whom on Russia?
BY RAYMOND MOLEX
The current furore about our relations
with Russia suggests that the less the
Russian people hear about the hodge-
podge of American official attitudes toward
Russia, the better it will be for all of us.
If Stalin chooses to keep to himself the
full comic account of our stumbling over
our own diplomatic feet, he may simply
be indulging in a bit of Asiatic humor. It
is certain, in any event, that if we, who
are in the midst of the dabbling, can make
no sense of it, the Russian people should
not be expected to.
There are two possible explanations for
Ambassador Standley's remarks—either
his comments were made without the
knowledge of the White House, in which
case we have sent a pretty incompetent
Ambassador to a critically important gov-
ernment, or they were made to scare Mr.
Stalin into a closer collaboration on our
idealistic but blurry postwar plans. If we
were trying, through Admiral Standley, to
exercise a bit of threatening pressure, by
suggesting that Congress might withhold
lend-lease aid to Russia, we left ourselves
wide open for a raucous laugh. Stalin is
in a position to do a lot of threatening
himself. No one knows that better than
Stalin and the subtle, thoroughly informed
Litvinov.
THE MAIN FACT
What, at best, is Stalin to think of our
diplomacy? We have been represented
by men such as the mercurial Bullitt, by
Harry Hopkins and now by the admiral.
We have blown hot and cold. Willkie ap-
pears in Moscow and broadcasts criticisms
of the government which permitted him
to go. Wallace mumbles something about
somebody who is trying to double-cross
Russia, leaving even Americans puzzled
about the identity of the unnamed vil-
lains. Before this comedy of ineptitudes
continues, it would seem that the admin-
istration ought to pull itself together and
decide on a Russian policy that our own
people, to say nothing of the Russian
people, can understand.
Any faltering in our determination to
send every piece of armament that can be
spared to Russia on the ground that Ger-
many can beat Russia on the eastern
front would obviously be senseless. Such
is our position that we must assume that
Russia is moving toward the kill. Whether
Russia stops at the border or moves on to
Berlin is secondary to the fact that Ger-
many lost the war before Stalingrad and
in the Caucasus. The speed with which
the war is won is so important that we
must sustain the one power that has a
chance to finish it this year. That power
is Russia. Not only the lives of thou-
sands of Americans, but our capacity to
recover from the terrible strains of a war
economy are involved.
LITTLE TO FEAR
Our only possible course is to try to
beat Hitler by giving Russia what it takes.
A realistic view of probabilities is that
after Germany is beaten, Russia will have
a prominent influence on the continent of
Europe in any event. It will have an
overwhelming army. It has a population
which is growing while that of practically
all the rest of Europe is declining. It has
vast natural resources. It is, excepting
for the United States, the most self-suffi-
cient nation on earth.
Finally, all the evidence of history and
common sense suggests that we have
little to fear from Russia in the play of
postwar power politics. No country so
situated will reach out for world conquest.
There may be border stresses and strains
as there were throughout the past two
centuries, but they will not affect us
vitally. Why should we not recognize
that?
But we can, if we deserve the name of
a self-governing nation, control the flow
of Communist propaganda here at home.
We can make it impossible for any per-
son who has been affiliated with a foreign-
supported agency or with a party whose
object is the destruction of our form of
government to hold office in our govern-
ment. We can suppress all political par-
ties or organizations which work with
money contributed from abroad and which
propose the overthrow of our republican
government.
These things we can and should do.
Meanwhile, we can have the grace to re-
frain from making ourselves ludicrous by
amateurish posturing on the diplomatic
stage.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Antiques
George Ryan in the Boston Herald
"How many years must elapse," an in-
quiring reader asks an info man, "before
anything becomes an antique?" Well, we
wouldn't know, in general, but a couple
of months seems to be enough for a Wash-
ington bureau.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.