European War
to End This Year?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Military experts, in giving us their
opinions about the probable duration of
the war in Europe, persist in placing a
wholly unnecessary limitation upon them-
selves. They persist in tempering their
opinions in accordance with their own
views about the requirements of Ameri-
can morale. They tell us now that our
determination to win will sag if we hear
encouraging opinion about the war's
probable length.
The military man is entitled to his
opinion about morale, of course, but no
more than anyone else. This writer hap-
pens to believe that American morale
needs no nursemaid, and that Americans
are entitled to the honest opinions of
those who comment upon the fact. In
that spirit, he sets down the factors that
lead him to believe the European war will
end before most experts say it will.
DIFFERENCES IN FRONTS
Compare the present military situation
with that of 1918. Then, as now, the Ger-
mans were fighting on one major front.
But now the front is approximately 1000
miles from Berlin. In 1918, it was half
that distance. The length of the front is
now over 1000 miles. Then it was one-
third of that distance.
Germany's early advantage of interior
lines in this war is destroyed now by the
simple fact that Europe geographically is
not only an isthmus itself but a series of
long fingers. Hitler must hold the lines
in Norway, Italy and Greece, and each is
independent of the other. He also has to
reckon with the distances to Marseille,
to Brest and to the Pyrenees. Except for
Germany's Balkan and Italian troubles in
1918, she had no such problem of dis-
tances in 1918, and even the improvements
in transportation in the last 25 years give
Hitler little to compensate for the im-
mense difference.
The Balkan allies are just as unreliable
as they were in 1918. It is well to remem-
ber that the blow that did much to shatter
German morale then was the desertion of
Bulgaria in September of that year. His-
tory may well repeat itself in the Balkans
now since Bulgaria is the traditional
friend of Russia, not Germany. From
Hitler's standpoint the Balkans are rotten
to the core.
Germans who lived through 1918 say
that the supreme blow to their will to
fight was their realization that they had
failed to win before American production
had reached serious proportions. Our
production now is incomparably greater
than it was then. We were borrowing
arms then—we are lending and giving
them now.
The advantage that our air power now
gives us is obvious. The frantic warnings
to the people of Hamburg and Berlin, the
tremendous losses of life from bombings,
the destruction of the means of urban life
—all suggest an internal disorganization
that has had no parallel in history. Hun-
dreds of thousands cannot leave cities
without demoralizing life there. And
when panic seizes even a part of a nation,
the factors that made it strong disappear.
For Germany's strength has been in or-
ganization.
One remaining factor has not yet re-
ceived adequate attention. Legitimacy of
government has been the basis of Eu-
ropean stability for centuries. In 1918,
Germany had an old and respected family
of rulers. The army was devoted to the
Hohenzollerns. Now Germany has an up-
start ruler whose only claims to the right
to govern are terrorism and success. It
happened that even the Kaiser, to whom
loyalty was deep-rooted and almost in-
stinctive, was not worth dying for when
ultimate success was impossible. Will
the Germans stick with Hitler longer?
Presumably the Germans are stiffened
by a fear of Russia now. That is a pow-
erful factor on the other side of this argu-
ment. But the sum of the evidence seems,
to this reporter, to support a hunch that
the struggle will end before, rather than
after, the new year.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.