Ghegs and Tosks
a Tough Species.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Albania's advantage as a loose stone in
the rickety Balkan arch is apparent on
the, map. It is the closest landing to the
east from Southern Italy and across it
is the nearest route to Salonika, a spot
which Churchill, with memories of his
unrealized dream of 1915, may have been
watching for many months.
But Albania also offers something to
those of us who are but kibitzers in this
mighty game. Its curious history belongs
to the realm of comedy, no matter how
serious the events that may occur upon
its background. Its people, known as
Ghegs and Tosks, have characteristics
which might be anticipated if our moun-
taineers, the Hatfields and the McCoys,
had been converted to the Moslem faith
long ago and, in addition to maintaining
bloody internecine feuds among them-
selves, had successfully annoyed and de-
fied every European conqueror, from Philip
of Macedon to Hitler.
REALLY TOUGH
They are, to put it mildly, a tough spe-
cies. For 700 years they were Turkish
subjects and for all those years they lived
off their conquerors, which is no mean
achievement, even in the Balkans. They
reluctantly paid the Turkish tax collec-
tors in the coast cities, and then had their
"liberation committees" zestfully take the
money back as the collectors wended
their way home through the mountains.
For good measure, the bones of the tax
collectors were usually left to fertilize the
mountain valleys.
When German soldiers in the first World
War returned home, they reported that
the Albanian farmer determined the size
of his tillable acres by the range of his
rifle. Had this method of crop limitation
occurred to Henry Wallace in the early
A.A.A. days, the taxpayers might have
been saved an army of bureaucrats.
When Austria tore away the last of the
Turkish Balkan holdings in 1912, the lib-
erated Albanians ignored Austria and de-
clared their Independence by asking the
Kaiser for a ruler. After looking over his
shelf of shopworn royalty, the Kaiser
obligingly provided a Prince of Wied. The
Prince attained the title of "Mpret" and
years of worry. His Christian and Moslem
subjects hated each other, both hated the
Yugoslavs and the Italians eyed his realm
with hungry eyes. When the Germans
left the country after the occupation dur-
ing the first World War, the unfortunate
"Mpret" disappeared.
'REPUBLIC' SET UP
Someone In Albania apparently had
heard that the World War was fought to
preserve democracy, and so Albania set
up a "republic" and elected Achmed Zogu
President. Zogu, with the aid of liberal
dispositions of money and patronage, con-
vinced the lusty democrats that he was
an indispensable man and so they elected
him King in 1928. Beset by the Yugoslavs
on one side, and the Italians on the
other, he decided to follow Pickwick's
advice and join the bigger crowd. So Italy
began to modernize the country. While
Zogu had preferred Italy for industry,
he turned to Hungary for beauty and mar-
ried the famous and attractive Countess
Geraldine Apponyi.
When Hitler's acquisition of a series
of countries whetted the lust of Musso-
lini, there was only one small world for
him--Albania. So, as he moved in, Zogu,
Geraldine, their son, some chambermaids
and the gold contents of the treasury
moved out. When last seen they were in
England, not a government in exile---
just in exile.
Mussolini provided for us in Albania
good port facilities and excellent roads to
the Greek frontier. The roads were tested
for speed by the Duce's troops when
the Greeks repelled them in 1940.
When we acquire Albania, it is going
to take the brightest graduate of Chancel-
lorville to handle the job of government.
For the Ghegs and the Tosks have a way
with governors.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.