Marxism Gets a Whack on the Chin
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The Marxists' thesis was that the solidarity of workers everywhere was more just and logical than nationalism, that Marxism would ultimately prevail and that the workers who believed in it should unite on a world basis to bring it about. The first of these points was sheer speculation, The second could only follow if the first proved true.
The third was an effort to hasten the fruition of circumstances which rested upon sheer speculation. Now, after 100 years, the fabric of Marx's speculation is a pretty discredited affair, The evidence is against it, and apparently Stalin, who uses Marx only so far as Marx is useful to him, sees greater gains in scrapping his revolutionary setup in the interest of another kind of international cooperation.
In dissolving the Comintern, Stalin has merely confirmed what has been evident a long time—his belated realization that Russia can do better by depending upon nationalism than it can by resting its case on the intellectualized thesis that workers everywhere have common interests.
'A LOT OF TWADDLE'
The dissolution of the Third International should be welcomed in this country if for no other reason than that it should silence those Americans who announce hysterically that this war is a clash of two revolutions, and that the way to beat Fascism is to make our side a revolution, too. We have had a lot of that kind of twaddle—written and spoken—these three years, but when we subject the mouthings of these "revolutionists" to reasoned analysis, we discover that the "revolution" in which they believe we are engaged is either a sort of Wallace-Willkie-Beveridge good will affair, which is not revolution in any sense of the word, or an effort to establish democracy after our own plan everywhere, or nothing very coherent at all.
Stalin's new move makes it unmistakably clear that the United Nations are engaged in fighting neither a revolution nor a counterrevolution, but are a coalition of states, each of which is intent upon destroying a threat to its national existence, and each of which claims only its sovereign right to its own form of government.
What the effect of his move on the Communist party here will be cannot be clear for a while. Every suburbanite who has struggled with poison ivy knows that when the big root vine is cut, some of the more distant branches still remain green. He must then laboriously find the new shallow roots that the vine has pushed down.
A SENSIBLE POLICY
A sensible American policy toward Communism in the United States must be, like the suburbanite's policy toward poison ivy, a combination of trying to live with the shoots that remain, of limiting, so far as possible, the ivy's contact with people and of cleaning up the ground in which it grows.
Certainly, we should deport all alien Communists, deny the Communist party anything like the time on the radio assigned to the large political parties, keep it off the ballot as much as possible by stricter election laws, keep Communists and fellow travelers out of public jobs, and reveal through vigilant law enforcement the financial sources behind all Communist and near-Communist organizations.
Meanwhile, the Moscow confession of failure to internationalize the revolution is significant. The major promise of the Marxian thesis is removed when its international character is abandoned.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.