What Prices
After the War?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In World War I, Germany's Leon Hen-
derson was Dr. Julius Hirsch. In World
War II, Dr. Julius Hirsch was our Leon
Henderson's chief consultant. After World
War I, Dr. Hirsch continued to serve his
native country in various capacities in
its republican days and when intol-
erance drove many Germans from their
country, he went first to Denmark and
then in 1941 to the United States where
he has been serving our O.P.A. Now his
observations on price control have ap-
peared in a book for Americans—"Price
Control in a War Economy.” Those who
must meet the ever-increasing complex-
ities of doing business within the strait-
jacket of a war economy will find what
Dr. Hirsch says of extraordinary interest.
This expert does not believe that we
shall have runaway inflation here after
the war. Maybe there will be a rise of
20 to 25 per cent of prewar prices, but
he does not consider this disastrous.
Dr. Hirsch’s reasons for that conclu-
sion are six: Our debt will be an internal
one, not, as in Germany’s case, a debt
to foreign countries; our system of pro-
duction will not be exhausted and disor-
ganized; we shall have the Ft. Knox
gold; we shall be in possession and con-
trol of our own frontier; we shall have
vast natural resources; and the prices of
what we use will be controlled within
the country, not, as in Germany’s case,
in other countries.
There follows an extremely shrewd
and candid discussion of the welter of
problems, general and detailed, which
confront the O.P.A. What will most con-
cern businessmen, since the published ob-
jective of our price control law is “fair
and equitable prices,” is Dr. Hirsch’s
definition of the eight components of a
fair price. As he sees them they are (1)
purchase price of all commodities, includ-
ing all raw and auxiliary materials; (2)
cost of production, including cost of stor-
age, handling and distribution; (3) reason-
able allowance for overhead costs; (4)
compensation for the proprietor’s own
labor; (5) rent for own business premises;
(6) interest on capital; (7) a fair risk
premium; and (8) net profit, not to ex-
ceed the prewar or pre-emergency level.
SALVATION SEEN
As Dr. Hirsch looks ahead he sees sal-
vation for us, not in a great expansion
of foreign trade, but in the maintenance
of free enterprise at home, which in co-
operation with the government can plan
the absorption of labor on a large scale.
This should take the direction of pri-
vately planned reconversion of industry,
construction projects (notably in land
conservation), a limited use of other
state-directed public works, and broader
co-operation within industries in the di-
rection of a comparison of “costs, mar-
gins and performances.”
Such a conclusion, Dr. Hirsch obvious-
ly realizes, will represent to many Ameri-
can businessmen the negation of free en-
terprise. But he clings to the belief that
we can have planning by government
and industry, the lessening of antitrust
policing, the growth of large industrial
units and, at the same time, also preserve
the essentials of competition.
Whether or not thoughtful Americans
agree with this, it is plain that Dr. Hirsch
has put his finger on the vital issue on
postwar economics. Unless we solve that
paradox we shall continue, as Mr. Roose-
velt has done, to try mixing a Thurman
Arnold policy with a Rex Tugwell policy,
the net result of which was to prevent
for eight long years any substantial
peacetime recovery at all.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.