Forgotten Man
and His Taxes
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The forgotten man, whose troubles were
so eloquently described by William Gra-
ham Sumner, isn't quite sure yet whether
the new tax bill is a joke or a hidden
legacy. Perhaps the best answer is that
it is pleasure deferred.
The man of whom Sumner wrote was
not one of the pitiful one-third so dear to
the, Roosevelt heart. He was an honest,
hard-working burgher who had a job and
a salary. He saved a little, educated his
children and wore a white collar. Maybe,
In these times, he gets from $4000 to $8000
a year during some 40 years of produc-
tivity.
He has two transcendental anxieties.
He worries about his children and his
health for the first 20; the next 20 he
worries about his health and his old age.
How does Congress deal with him?
Pretty unfairly now. But not harshly
later on—if he lives. And if he dies, his
heirs will not make any cracks about him
on the March 15 following the sad rites.
Uncle Sam will not follow the hearse with
a due-bill.
JUST BOOKKEEPING
It is obvious that this gentle creature
is the perennial goat in every depression
and in every boom. His salary is stable,
hence depressions destroy his salary and
booms destroy his savings. Inflation is
sheer poison for him. But that is his eter-
nal burden. The new tax bill won't change
that much.
Let us suppose that he has, so far as
he could, saved something of what he
made in 1942 to pay taxes in 1943. His
payments on March 15 and June 15 apply
against his 1943 taxes. That makes little
difference to him because his income this
year is about what it was in 1912. The
new law affects him as a matter of book-
keeping, except that what he has cur-
rently saved for taxes in 1944 can be spent
for current needs. And, what with mount-
ing prices, these needs probably will eat
up his nest egg anyhow. But he must pay
taxes on his 1943 income this year, and in
1944 and 1945 he must not only pay on
those years, but on each March 15 one-
eighth of his tax on his 1942 income,
which, by then, will be a pretty dead
horse. So, while theoretically richer, he
will for three years be actually poorer.
JUST WAIT!
But when the boss looks sorrowfully at
him some years ahead and mumbles
something about long and faithful service,
how he has earned a rest, and how, after
all, we all have to retire sometime—
then he begins to think about that gar-
den in the country, about how his heart
jumps up when he rushes for the 8:15, about
how he can't sleep so well after four
hours a day, and about the children's all
being married anyhow—then is the time
when he will get out a picture of Senator
George and hang it in the kitchen.
For when he retires on Dec. 31, 1956,
and the boys give him a smoker and the
boss says he wishes he was retiring, too,
the forgotten man will have one comfort-
ing thought. He will not have to worry
about March 15, 1957. That's something,
and that's all.
But, of course, he must retain his pres-
ent earning power up to the date of his
blessed retirement to get the real benefit
of this miraculous gift of 75 per cent of a
year's taxes.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.