Sizing Up the Supreme Court
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When Justice Rutledge ascends the
bench, the Supreme Court will have
everything academic but a stadium, a
bunch of hired—no scholarshipped—foot-
ball players and a college band. It will
even have a tiny alumni association. But
it will also have only three of the old-
fashioned variety of practicing lawyers.
Let us begin with those members of
the court whose major occupation in the
years after their admission to the bar was
that of professor and/or dean of a law
school. There are four: Stone, Frankfurter, Douglas and Rutledge. According
to their accounts in Who’s Who, they
were in private practice exclusively an
average of less than two years.
Two other justices, Black and Murphy,
held innumerable public offices. Of these,
Murphy practiced privately three years,
and Black, when he ascended the bench,
had apparently practiced some 15. Mr.
Roberts’ career shows 30 years of private
practice. During 20 of these years, however, he also taught law at the University
of Pennsylvania. Messrs. Roberts, Reed
and Jackson seem to be the exclusive
representatives of the old-fashioned lawyer in the court. Reed practiced law 19
years before he entered public office.
Jackson practiced 21.
COMPOSITE JUSTICE
If we try the old device of building
the “composite” justice out of the nine,
the said “composite” would be a man 56
years old. Since his admission to the bar
he has spent nearly twice as many years
as a public officeholder and law professor
as he has in the full-time professional
practice of law.
At this point we can be sure that many
friends of Mr. Roosevelt will rise to object. “Is it not desirable,” they will ask,
“to build the tradition that a Supreme
Court justice should have a career on
the bench and that justices are taken
from among the best judges of the lower
court?” Without the bother of compiling
the data of a century and a half, the
answer can be ventured that appointments
to this court probably show less recognition of the importance of a judicial career
than the appointments of any Supreme
Court in our history.
Only one member of the entire Supreme
Court as now constituted ever served on
the Federal bench prior to his nomination and that one, Mr. Rutledge, served
only three years. Two others were judges,
but both of them, Black and Murphy, were
judges of city criminal courts.
The public offices held by the present
justices were in the main political. There
were three United States Attorneys General. Only two of the justices ever held
the important law office of Solicitor General.
PERHAPS TOO ACADEMIC?
All this is not to disparage the academic
mind. By tradition, the professor is a
person who unhurriedly reviews the facts
of the world and shapes from them a
broad synthesis of principle. Presumably
that is what the Supreme Court must do,
and academic training helps. But while
the academic life has advantages it also
has disadvantages. The law school teacher
is, in the main, synthesizing not facts
but opinions about facts written by judges
and embalmed in law books. The pulsating life of these facts is twice removed
from him. So he gets into a habit not of
developing principles from facts but from
other people’s conclusions from facts.
This can and usually does become a kind
of intellectual cobweb-spinning. It suggests a teacher of anatomy who tries to
instruct future doctors by showing them
the nudes in a museum of art.
The academic mind insists upon drawing broad conclusions willy-nilly, regardless of the sparseness of the facts on which
they rest. That is the reason the conclusions of the academic man so often fail to
conform to the realities.
The facts that must shape the law can
be learned only in the realm of experience. There is no substitute for private
practice in providing that experience. A
great court needs men who not only have
the capacity to draw conclusions from
economic and social facts, but who know
from experience what these facts really
are.
The evidence is conclusive that the
membership of the present Supreme Court
is tragically deficient in this vital element
of experience. Mr. Roosevelt, in 1937,
said that youth was the indispensable
element in the court. There can be judges
who are too old to learn, of course. But
there can be younger judges who have
had no chance to learn, and Mr. Roosevelt has filled the court with them.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.