G.O.P. Shocked
Out of Defeatism
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Republican leaders are the people who
were shocked the most by the election
results. Let's hope it will jar them out of
their defcatism. Two weeks ago I asked
a very prominent Republican leader about
Hanley, his party's candidate for Lieutenant
Governor of New York. He answered
ominously that Hanley was not a strong
candidate, that Hanley was 67 years old,
and that registration up-State in New
York was far below registration down-
State. This pessimistic leader was amazed
by Hanley's big majority.
No Republican whom I saw in Ohio a
week ago gave the Republican candidate
in neighboring Kentucky a chance. Yet
at the time of this writing he is in the
lead,
TOO PESSIMISTIC
In Philadelphia I found private Republican
opinion divided on the Samuel-Bullitt
race. It is now clear that the boys were
afraid of their own shadows. Everywhere,
Republican leaders, like all politicians, a
superstitious lot, grossly underestimated
their own party vote.
Democratic leaders were vastly more
realistic. My information from that side
of the fence was that their New York
candidate hardly had a chance and that
in New Jersey it was in the bag for the
Republicans. I preferred to believe them.
The event justified my confidence.
But now that there has been a real sign
from the people there may be a new spirit
in Republican Presidential possibilities.
To date they have acted like a bunch of
mid-Victorian finishing school girls at
their first garden party. Their demeanor
has suggested two things—that they don't
think they are fit to succeed the man now
in the White House and that, anyhow,
he cannot be beaten in 1941.
VOTERS AHEAD OF LEADERS
Even Mr. Willkie, who at least believes
he is fit to be President, expects people
to like him because he is so much like
Mr. Roosevelt. From here on the public
is going to be a little impatient with coy
political sissies. And if someone comes
along who is willing to lay his future on
a sound conservative program which is
a real alternative to the New Deal, he
may run away with the nomination.
There are several considerations that
must be borne in mind before we write
off 1941 as just another Roosevelt landslide.
First is the manifest desire of the
people for a change; second, the fact that
the war with Germany may well be over
long before the conventions. Washington
advices to the contrary notwithstanding;
finally, this definitive demonstration that
the voters are well ahead of their leaders.
Copyright, 1941, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.