John L. Lewis
and a Fast One
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It begins to look once more as if the
administration, in an effort to "hold" John
L. Lewis, has had to let go of almost
everything else. The suggestion of Secre-
tary Perkins that the miners be granted
an annual wage, if it goes through, will
mean that the administration has not
only been licked but routed.
An annual wage implies more than a
revolutionary reorganization of the coal
mining industry and in all likelihood
ultimate government ownership of coal
mining. It implies a complete breakdown
of the administration's antitrust defenses
and, as nearly everyone except Secretary
Perkins realizes clearly, an utter knock-
out of our feeble anti-inflation policy. Cer-
tainly it will confirm what John N.
Garner once told the President—that John
L. Lewis is the most powerful and re-
sourceful individual in the United States.
THEN IT HAPPENED
Some idea of Lewis' skill as a nego-
tiator can be gathered from his use of
the comparatively simple "portal-to-portal"
proposal as gambit. The ostensible argu-
ment for this proposition was that, thanks
to the progressive modernization of the
large operators' mines, the journey of
workers to and from their actual work
in the mines required miles of travel
over company property. Small mines, on
the other hand, presented no consider-
able problem of loss of actual earning
time because of travel on company prop-
erty. Since the company negotiators rep-
resented chiefly big operators Lewis nat-
urally met stiff opposition. At that mo-
ment Secretary Perkins suggested the an-
nual wage alternative. Nothing, obviously,
could have pleased Lewis more. And
nothing could upset the government more.
Since the Labor Department makes no
suggestion as to how the annual wage
guarantee is to be met it must be assumed
that the proposal must force a reorganiza-
tion of the industry. Production would
have to be concentrated in the large and
efficient mines. This could be done, it is
reliably said, for a year or so with little
competition from the small operators.
But sooner or later competition from the
marginal small mines would arise. The
operators of these mines would then be
in an excellent position to say that the
negotiators had no right to guarantee
300-odd days' work a year. At that point
the unions or the government, or both,
would have to suppress the small fellows.
If the Labor Department, the N.W.L.B.
or some other government agency agreed
that the unions should put the squeeze
on small mines, an interesting legal ques-
tion would arise. What becomes of the
Justice Department's effort to enforce
the antitrust laws?
MANY COMPLICATIONS
The net of the situation would be an
agreement between the unions' and the
operators' negotiators, approved by one
department of the administration, while
another department is required to con-
test. A situation parallel to the oil case
would arise with complications, that no
one could predict.
That the Perkins solution would be a
victory for Mr. Lewis goes without say-
ing. He has always preferred to deal with
the big operators; he loves nothing more
than to throw the clumsy government
agencies into consternation and, what is
most important, he would have gained
something for his men that his rivals,
the A.F.L. and the C.I.O., could not get
for theirs.
Last week's pictures of John Lewis
portray a man with a very happy secret.
No wonder.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.