Mr. Wallace
and the Bait
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Charles Michelson, in his interesting memoirs published last week, makes mention of some private letters allegedly written by Henry Wallace. Mr. Michelson alleges these letters were "silly."
Many of those who have written about the Michelson book—especially those opposed to the administration—have seized avidly upon this hint of lush political material. This is probably exactly what Mr. Michelson, who doubtless favors a fourth term, expected and wanted them to do. For shrewd old Charley must have put this tidbit in his book for exactly the same reason that soldiers plant mines in the roads during a retreat.
A SHREWD MOVE?
Since Charley has generously given me credit in his book for political insight—which I accept as praise from Sir Hubert—I think I can add something to the story and suggest the reasons why. Mr. Michelson revives it now. No doubt Charley belongs to that large faction in the administration which positively does not want Mr. Wallace on the ticket. They think he would hurt Mr. Roosevelt's chances. How better could Michelson bring about the dropping of Mr. Wallace than by intimating that Mr. Wallace would be a liability? On the other hand, Republicans ought to want Mr. Wallace to be renominated.
I had some personal knowledge of the so-called Wallace "letters" in 1910. When the letters were discovered, the Republican National Committee was confronted with the question of whether or not to make them public. I was asked for an opinion by a high official of the Republican National Committee. I advised the Republicans not to make them public even if they were authentic.
SPEECHES ENOUGH
My reasons were twofold. On the practical side, this business of personal attacks is old stuff in politics, and most Americans resent it, or disbelieve it. It wouldn't get Mr. Willkie any votes, I believed. Second, the letters were personal. They had no moral connotation of any sort. They had nothing to do with public business. A very well-known newspaper publisher who was consulted agreed with me. The letters were not published.
Republicans ought to want Mr. Wallace to run, not because any silly letters may come to light, but because Mr. Wallace would be a weak candidate. If any American cannot find reasons for voting against Mr. Wallace because of his silly public speeches, no private letters, however absurd, will convince him. For the record it ought to be said here that Mr. Wallace denies the authorship of the letters.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
No Wonder
Boston Globe
Fathers are in better physical condition than bachelors, the Army finds, and it was to be expected. A hike with a pack on his back is nothing to a man who has paced a maternity ward with a load on his mind.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.