The Impressive Pledges of Gov. Dewey
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Gov. Dewey's trip to Minneapolis and Chicago has measurably improved his position in the Midwest. He conducted himself with tact and skill and avoided the pitfalls that threaten any candidate in the critical moments of a campaign. His public reception in Chicago, which I had the chance to witness, was most impressive.
His speeches in Minneapolis and Chicago should finally assure those sincere people who have wanted a clear picture of the candidate's foreign policy before making their decision. For the Chicago speech, by implication, was as important a factor on foreign policy as the one in Minneapolis.
In Chicago Mr. Dewey laid bare in all its sordid reality the considerations that operate in the selections of many of those who participate in the making and carrying out of administration policy. The story of the $1000-1000-Member Club is merely a new version of an old practice. If the public could see a list of past campaign contributions laid beside a list of all appointments in our foreign service, the lesson would be impressive. It is not enough to answer that Foreign Ministers and Ambassadors selected for years before the Roosevelt administration were usually men who gave liberally to campaign funds.
The point is that this administration, in Mr. Roosevelt's own words, brought into government a new "moral climate." But no real change was introduced in the selection of those who conducted our affairs abroad. What is needed is an extension of the Hatch Act to make mandatory the publication, when a man is appointed to any Federal office, of the exact amount of his past contributions to party activities. This might well be a major measure for the new Congress. It is not so much that the practice of rewarding contributors with jobs leads to corruption in office. Most of the big contributors need no more money.
But the practice has the effect of putting incompetent people in vitally important foreign posts, which had dragged down the quality of our representation and has frustrated the operation of foreign policy. The best foreign policy will fail if incompetent people administer it.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.