A Contrast
in Washington
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Washington, as the writer of
this column recently saw it, offers a picture of remarkable contrasts.
On the one side, the Navy and
Army establishments reveal energy, imagination and confidence. On the civil side of government, especially among the
politically minded officeholders
within the sprawling New Deal
bureaucracy, the mood is tired,
played out and lusterless.
Awareness of this weary temper
comes with special force to one
who saw the great crusade begin in 1933 and continue for two
or three years immediately
thereafter.
Ideas—good and bad ones—
were in the air then. Whether
they were good or bad, they
were fresh and interesting and
vital.
ALL THE SAME
Idealists in power grow old
and tired, like everyone else.
An idealist in office after a dozen years comes to resemble all
other officeholders, it seems. His
major concern is to keep his
job and to destroy competition
for it by hook or crook.
The New Dealers hope and believe the President will run
again. They are not too sure, of
course, but they simply cannot
admit any other possibility.
They are not particularly concerned about his peace of mind
or his need of a rest. He is their
way of life or, to put it more
crudely, their means of livelihood. As they see it, he simply
must run because, without him,
what would happen to them
and to the great crusade?
When you ask them what they
have to add to the great crusade, they become obscure and
indefinite. Pressed for an answer, they tell you stumblingly
that it is necessary to keep
them in power to retain what
they have created. They argue
for the status quo. So, in effect,
they really fall back on the ultimate answer of reaction, for
their answer actually means
nothing more nor less than that
they should stay in power because they are the only people
who know what is good for us
all.
ATROPHY OF ABILITY
Curiously, like aging belles,
they grow increasingly resentful about references to the age
either of themselves or of their
bosses, yet, obviously, it isn’t absolute age alone that is in question. It is bureaucratic age; it
is the drying up of the élan
that produces ideas and plans,
of the capacity to feel and react
to the sentiments of the country. It has to do with the
atrophy of the ability to respond
to the public mood.
Here, at any rate, is Washington in the great year of decision:
An incomparable and growing
Navy and a great Army, marching beside a desperately weary
civil establishment which cries
out with halting breath that,
unless we keep the political
jobholders, our armed forces
will be without support.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.