The Ohio telephone strike brings into sharp focus the conflict between the actuality of "full" employment and the policies of a government which guarantees equality of pay and working conditions within specific groups of workers. The trouble started when the telephone company brought out-of-town operators into Dayton to help out in a condition of great congestion and shortage of help. It paid these girls $18.75 a week extra because of additional expenses incurred by them. I am not here concerned with the detailed merits of the case or with what the company or the government should have done to prevent or to end the trouble. The important lesson that this incident reveals is that when everyone is employed or is being paid a dole by the government, nothing short of government coercion can provide the movement of labor which usually characterizes a changing and healthy economic system.

ROAD TO SERFDOM
Frederick Hayek, in his extraordinary book, "The Road to Serfdom," has recently pointed out the conflict between a planned economy and a flexible economy. He says, "If the changes in the distribution of men between different employments, which are constantly necessary in any society, can no longer be brought about by pecuniary 'rewards' and 'penalties,' they must be brought about by direct orders." When a person's income is guaranteed, Hayek points out, he can neither be allowed to stay on his job merely because he likes it nor to choose what other work he would like to do. Sooner or later, the happy coalition between government planners and politically organized labor will die a bitter death at this crossroad. The hold of union leaders over their men is based on increased wages. In wartime the unions have had to exercise little compulsion over their members, and thus good will within the unions has remained at a high point. But the leaders know that enough individualism is present among members to cause violent resentment of coercive changes in employment.

WHAT TO DO?
Hence, the leaders will have either to pass on the unpleasant task of coercion to government or to come out flatly for freedom to work when and where the members choose. At the present moment, the chief advocates of coercion are those members of the administration who are most concerned in winning the war. These men are not economic planners in peacetime. They are, for the most part, conservatives and hardy individualists. Even their argument of war necessity falls to move union leaders. It is not to be expected that the peacetime planners can fare any better when the war is over, even though they have the modified blessing of the White House. Then will come the embarrassment of the promise of "full" employment.