Dr. Goerdeler
and Hitler
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
News, dispatches report that
Dr. Karl Goerdeler, former Mayor
of Leipzig, has been captured
and, by the time this is in print,
the news may come out of Germany that Hitler has taken another and much more important
life than any of the army group
that he hanged two weeks ago.
The Nazis' estimate of Goerdeler's importance was shown
at the time of the purge by the
fact that they put a price of
1,000,000 marks on his head.
Goerdeler is said to have been
the rebellious generals' candidate to succeed Hitler. He was
born 60 years ago in Eastern
Germany. He rose in the profession of the civil service to
the post of Vice-Mayor of Koenigsberg. He directed the affairs of that city so well that
it was one of the first German
cities to get an American loan
in the '20s.
JOB WELL DONE
During the heart of the depression in 1930, he was called
to Berlin to set up a system of
price administration for the
Bruening government. His problem was a sharp disparity between the prices of such raw
agricultural products as grain
and wool which were dropping
sharply, and the prices of cartel-produced or branded goods
which were protected by private agreements. Instead of
adopting the policy, subsequently adopted by Mr. Roosevelt,
of inflating agricultural prices,
he directed his efforts toward
reducing the prices of goods
processed by the cartels. Not
only the cartels but the small
retailers favored the maintenance of the agreements, which
they believed were their protection from competition by
chain stores and consumers' cooperatives. He effected a compromise by declaring that if
these prices were cut at least
10 per cent he would permit
the agreements to continue, but
that otherwise he would declare them illegal. In less than
three months he secured the
desired cuts, and to the amazement of the bureaucrats, retired
from his completed job.
MAY BE IMPORTANT
The city of Leipzig then secured Goerdeler's services as
Mayor. There he was employed
when Hitler came to power. The
Fuehrer in 1933 called him to
Berlin once more to repeat his
miracle of price reduction.
Again he succeeded, but his
relations with the Nazis were
unfriendly. He frankly warned
Hitler against his anti-Semitic
policies, declaring that they were
ruining Leipzig's great international business. Finally after a
quarrel with the Nazis occasioned by their removal of a
statue of Leipzig's great musician, Mendelssohn, Goerdeler resigned.
There are various current
stories of his great importance
in the German underground
movement, but it is not clear
that he has been in any sense
a revolutionary leader.
If he survives the man hunt
now going on he may be very
significant in postwar Germany.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.