'More
of Same'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CHICAGO, July 22.—The Democratic platform prepared for the
delegates in the White House
was brief for one of the best
reasons in the world. There was
little more to say. The record
is there and all the piety and
wit in the world cannot erase
half a line. The campaign will
be fought on that record and not
on the sterile question of what
the two platforms did or did not
say. Platforms are not long remembered in modern campaigns,
however, and the candidates generally go far afield in making the
issues upon which thinking people make their decisions.
One part of the Democrat
platform will be noted and remembered, however, by the
southern delegates, who have
come to realize how completely
they have lost their influence in
party affairs. The claims of Texans and others who came here
with certain basic demands received small consideration.
STATES IGNORED
The plank dealing with racial
minorities comes out squarely
for the right of all to vote and
pledges action by Congress to
protect that right. It is true that
the word “unconstitutional” is
used but considering the more
recent unconstitutional decision
of the Supreme Court, the southern supporters of the right of
States to determine the suffrage
can take small comfort. Specifically, the southern claims were
disallowed.
Moreover, the platform as well
as the President’s speech of acceptance shows no recognition
of increasing sentiment to stop
and even reverse the invasion of
State powers by the Federal
government. Both platform and
speech seem to assume that progress in human welfare, in the
regulation of business, and in
the protection of civil rights
must come only through the paternal watchfulness of the government in Washington. The
States are once more ignored.
Of this the Republican candidates will have a great many
forceful things to say.
JUST THE SAME
On foreign relations the basic
principles in the two platforms
are the same. That is wholly desirable because foreign policy in
its essentials is not a proper
matter for partisan difference.
On the other hand foreign relations, as distinguished from policy, are a proper theme for argument.
And in that field the Democratic platform and the speech
ask us to believe that all of the
assorted expressions of an international character such as the
Atlantic Charter, the four freedoms and the conferences of the
heads of States are consistent
one with the other, and with
American policy. That can be
very effectively disputed without
in the slightest degree suggesting that we are, as the President
says, “isolationists and ostrich-
es.”
The President’s speech to the
delegates had little of cheer to a
group of harassed and bewildered men and women who have
been so willing to follow his
leadership.
Released by the Associated Newspapers
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.