Europe Trade
Outlook Dark
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
On a background of administration picture writing of the
great possibilities of postwar foreign trade, embellished by
the dreams of Wallace and the hopes of Hull, the Hon. Jesse
Jones, has permitted the printed records of his department to impose
a piece of stark and vivid realism. Writing in the Foreign
Commerce Weekly, Louis Domeratzky of the Bureau of Foreign
and Domestic Commerce calmly appraises Europe as a postwar
trading ground for the United States.
Mr. Domeratzky combines in his article plenty of departmental
diplomacy with some wholesome truths for the American public. Here
is at least one realist among the bureaucrats. He asserts that even
in the period of peace between the wars, the decline of European
participation in world trade "had become quite distinct." And now,
after four and a half years of war, Europe has lost a large part of
her markets in South America and the British Empire.
SOME FIGURES
The romantic world-trade boys in the administration have been
telling of how a postwar Europe will need our products in great
quantities. Which is like saying that an uninsured man, whose
unprofitable store has been leveled by a tornado, will be a large
employer of carpenters. Mr. Domeratzky reminds us that the
devastation that has created European needs has created the prospect
not of an increase, but of a decline in Europe's capacity to provide
a market for the world's commodities.
Mr. Domeratzky presents a few figures. He says: "Our exports
to the Continent averaged about 31 per cent of our total exports
during the period 1926-30, and about 29 per cent in 1938. The
total amount averaging less than a billion and a half even during
the prosperous period of 1926-30 this amounts to only about 1 per
cent of the total United States national income which many economists
consider essential for our own prosperity in the postwar years."
His reference to "many economists" covers some of the political
big shots among Mr. Domeratzky's colleagues. It must include the
Hon. Vice-President himself, as well as the "prophecy division" of
the Commerce Department. It comes very close to the President's
guess of 125 billions.
COUNTRIES ANALYZED
Mr. Domeratzky considers each country in turn. Switzerland
will have stuff to sell, but few European tourists will be able to
afford Swiss hotels. France will have lost great investments abroad,
which will hamper her production capacity for years. Belgium will
have the Congo and may be better off than France. Holland will,
presumably, get back some of her possessions, but they will be in
need of much reconstruction. The Dutch will have lost vast investments
in Germany and other European countries. Poland, even when restored,
will find her former customer, Germany, slow to buy. Russia probably
will resume trade with Germany and the United States but Mr.
Domeratzky points out that there is no way of telling how much of
Russia's rebuilding will come from domestic resources and how much
of foreign supplies will be needed. The Balkans offer a fairly dark
trade picture.
Despite the hopes of international currency stabilizers, there is little
that Mr. Domeratzky can offer by way of hope that trade restrictions
can be removed. He even hints that they may be increased. An ultimately
prosperous Europe may well turn back the tide of a foreign trade
which was receding 10 years before the war came in 1939. But such
an assumption can hardly be included in present business calculations.
Nor can it now be counted upon, even after a considerable span of
years. Politicians who trade in such assumptions may make votes, but
they don't create trade.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.