Our Policy
in Pacific.

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Three Democrats in the Senate, McKellar, Chandler and
Reynolds, have projected into
Senate debate a subject which
may well become a major campaign issue. Their resolution
proposes that the United States
keep all the Japanese-held
islands south of the 30th parallel, including Formosa and the
Ryukyus, which are very close
to the southern tip of Japan
proper. It also proposes the
acquisition of Bermuda and all
West Indian islands now owned
by European nations, as part
payment of the debts which
those countries owe us. It proposes, in addition, the acquisition,
presumably by purchase,
of the Galapagos Islands now
owned by Ecuador.

This proposal by Senators of
his own party the President
can, of course, intern in the
Foreign Relations Committee
until the campaign is over. But
it clearly shows that he will
have to reveal more of his purposes than he did in his Bremer-
ton speech.

SHREWD POLITICS?

That speech, which was supposed to offer the conclusions
of a man who had devoted four
weeks to Pacific problems, was
rambling, shapeless and obscure. But a very shrewd political purpose may have been
behind it. The President suggested, although he did not say
it in so many words, that our
future protection must be assured by the possession of
islands far to the west of Hawaii. "Today," he said, "the
Hawaiian Islands are no longer
a mere outpost." Does this
mean that our outposts will extend south and west from the
Aleutians to the Philippines
and the Dutch East Indies?
Does it mean that in the future
ordering of the Pacific we shall
be responsible for the protection of Australasia? Such a
sweep of our power is possible
if Great Britain's strength
should prove to be insufficient
to hold her possessions on the
Asiatic mainland and Australia, too.

The President said, further,
that there are "hundreds of
islands" in the South Pacific
now held by the British and
French which "bear the same
relation to South and Central
America and the Panama Canal
as Hawaii bears to North America." This would seem to mean
that everything between Chile
and New Zealand is vital to Pan-
America. But then he added
that "we have no desire to ask
for any possessions of the
United Nations."

He has thus attempted to provide himself with a complete
escape corridor at either end of
his present position. If the Republicans favor a broad expansion of our defenses west of
Hawaii, he can say he thought
of it first. Or if they cry out
against "imperialism," he can
disclaim any intention of taking
over the sovereignty of any
new islands.

The Republicans might well
remind the country that the acquisition of our present out-
posts at Hawaii and Samoa and
the Aleutians was Republican
strategy 50 years ago.

Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.