The West
Aroused
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
DENVER, Sept. 18.— The
mountain States out here, from
Canada to Mexico, in a Presidential
election generally lean toward the
party in power in Washington.
This is because of the large Federal
expenditures in this region, the great
number of Federal employees and the
fact that very large proportions of the
areas of these States are owned by the
Federal government. But this year
circumstances have arisen which may
give Dewey a healthy minority of these
States.
The controversy in Wyoming over
the so-called Jackson Hole Monument
has aroused deep concern throughout
the mountains and up and down the
Pacific Coast. At a regional Governor’s
conference last year, this question was
bitterly discussed. Democratic and
Republican Governors joined in criticism
of the Washington administration for
the creation of the monument by executive
fiat. The case has just been exhaustively
argued in the Federal court in Sheridan,
Wyo., and the judge now has the next
word.
HOW IT HAPPENED
What happened was that, suddenly, in
March, 1943, the President issued a
proclamation setting aside as a national
monument an area of 221,610 acres.
This area adjoins the Grand Teton
National Park, which was created by
Congress in 1920. Parks are created by
Congress; monuments by Presidential
proclamation.
This Presidential monument adjoins
the Grand Teton Park. It does not
contain a single outstanding mountain.
It is quite suitable for private agricultural
development. There is grave doubt as
to its usefulness as a preserve for wild
game.
The indignation of the State of
Wyoming is based on the fact that this
action further reduces the property in
the State available for taxation. When
it is considered that already more than
half of the area of the State is Federal
property, this further cut is a serious
matter in State finances.
THE CHALLENGE
The act of Congress from which the
President derives his power to issue such
proclamations provides that to qualify
as a monument the land set aside must
contain objects of historical or scientific
interest. The State of Wyoming, in the
arguments just finished in the Federal
court, denies that the new monument
contains objects of either historical or of
scientific interest.
The State contends that there is no
Jackson Hole Monument, since the
President exceeded his authority in
issuing his proclamation.
No one objects to reasonable conservation
of national resources. But when that
great cause is used to reduce States to
mere administrative agents of a Federal
bureaucracy, there is genuine cause for
alarm.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.