Death of
a Bad Bill
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is not often that what one
Senator says on the floor influences another Senator's vote.
But if a part of the overwhelming majority that tossed out the
Kilgore-Murray unemployment relief plan was not influenced by
the arguments of Senators Vandenberg, George and Taft, then
Senators are completely immune to logic and reason. It is seldom
that Senate debate has shown the clarity, logic and
background that these men brought to this complicated and
politically embarrassing subject.
In the first place, it is almost tragic that this subject of unemployment compensation during
reconversion should arise squarely in the middle of a
Presidential campaign. But circumstances, partly man-made
and partly coincidental, were responsible.
GROUP SCHEME
It is now clear that the long delay was the result of the fact
that while Senator George was laboring to provide a sensible
measure of relief for the unemployed within the four corners
of our constitutional and economic system, a group in the
administration was planning to use the emergency to destroy
a large part of the State systems of unemployment compensation
and also to place a further burden on free enterprise. The
Kilgore-Murray monstrosity was the result.
All this becomes clear if the Senate debate is reviewed.
Senator Vandenberg on Aug. 3 delivered a most powerful
speech against the Kilgore bill and for the George bill. As his
devastating attack continued, Senators Murray and Pepper
desperately tried to amend the bill.
They really hadn't meant what they had said, apparently. But
Senator Vandenberg proceeded to strip disguise from the proposal
and to reveal it in its true form. It would, said Vandenberg,
destroy the progressive steps taken in the States to relieve
unemployment, create a vast Federal tyranny over labor, charge the
Federal Treasury with something like $15,000,000,000 a year and
fatally impair the efforts of private business to provide the sort of
employment that everybody wants.
REFUGE SOUGHT
In reply exponents of the Kilgore plan found refuge in some of the
most remarkable clap-trap ever heard in the Senate. Apparently a
demagogue is a politician who is losing his case. Herbert Hoover
was brought into the debate, along with unnamed monopolists, the
Republican party and Gov. Dewey, all of which was not at issue in
the case.
But the most palpable fraud was the effort to claim that the
Kilgore-Murray plan was a plan for "full" employment. Obviously
it was a bill to deal with unemployment, not employment. It was to
provide money for the unemployed, not jobs for the employed. But
apparently politicians are determined to create the impression that
there can be, in a free economy, such a thing as "full" employment
and that perfect security can be obtained by voting for the right
people.