On the Subject
of 'Spheres'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When Issues such as the Polish-Russian dispute come up, we
begin to hear renewed talk of
spheres of influence. And whenever the words "sphere of influence" are used, the connotation is bad. It is a thumbs down
expression.
We seem to take for granted that there should be no spheres of influence—that we must do something to abolish such evidences of old diplomatic chicanery. But we may well take a new look at the expression, for there will be spheres of influence as long as there is a world, and they need not be bad.
OUR OWN SPHERES
By way of getting at the idea, let us see what our own spheres of influence are on this side of the world. Canada, the largest of our near neighbors, is within the orbit of the vast influence of the United States. The Dominion stoutly holds her political independence of us and will doubtless continue to do so. But, in the nature of things, our economic ups and downs carry with them our northern neighbor, whose population is less than a tenth of ours. A high Canadian official said in 1933, when our dollar was being streamlined by the new administration, that whatever we did about it, Canada must follow.
Our influence in Mexico is equally clear, although we add luminosity to it by our vast purchases of Mexican silver. Cuba is subject to our wishes, despite nominal independence. And so it goes, far into South America. We just call this influence by other names. But the meaning is obvious, and the influence is essential to the interest of us all.
WESTERN EUROPE
Marshal Smuts has spoken openly of a British sphere of influence in Western Europe, even going so far as to suggest political union with some. Belgian circles in London responded favorably. The Dutch want a political union, but neither their home nation nor their lost colonies can survive except under British protection. The financial relations of Great Britain with Scandinavia are sufficiently potent in normal times to help determine prosperity or depression there.
It will inevitably be so with Russia and the nations of Eastern Europe. Economic power, the need for protection, racial relationships—all these point that way.
Why, then, the denunciation of the concept? Perhaps because in the past a sphere of influence has been used ruthlessly to exploit the little for the strong. Perhaps it is because seizure and annexation was in the offing. Perhaps influence was used to tamper with the forms and personnel of governments. But the fact of influence is a cold and inescapable reality, like the location of rivers or seacoasts. Instead of adopting efforts to destroy the idea of influence, therefore, it may be well to try to determine its nature and character that, after this war, will be a matter for international discussion.
Copyright, 1944 Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate, Inc.