Mr. Hull's inability to continue as the active head of our foreign service will carry special emphasis with tens--perhaps hundreds--of thousands of Americans who voted to retain Mr. Roosevelt because they wanted no break in our efforts to make a lasting peace. For, to vast numbers of people, Mr. Hull was the best, perhaps the only, reason for keeping this administration in power. Mr. Hull won the confidence of those people the hard way. He won it as a Secretary of State should win it--by establishing the picture of himself as a man who was no pliant agent of the President, but who, as the director of foreign relations, stood for something in his own right. He had a quiet positiveness that even an impetuous and powerful President had to respect. And on innumerable occasions, he prevented hasty action, when the best course was to do nothing at all. When Woodrow Wilson decided to be his own Secretary of State, he was violating a tradition which went back to Washington and Jefferson. That tradition held that a President should select the biggest man in his party and then give him almost entire autonomy. In Mr. Hull's case, the President had a man who held vastly more discretion than any of Mr. Wilson's secretaries, but who was not given the freedom that Lincoln gave Seward or that Harrison gave Blaine. But Mr. Hull was no mere Presidential agent. He made his great integrity felt and he provided balance and caution. His removal from the scene will be a serious loss. No successor will have the restraining influence on the President that Mr. Hull has exercised for so long. Mr. Hull had unique advantages in that respect. He held toward "Franklin" the attitude of an older man for a beloved youngster. He had been a veteran in the House when Mr. Roosevelt was a young assistant Secretary of the Navy. Later, Hull was to win the profound respect of Louis Howe, who wanted the Democrats to nominate him for Vice-President in 1928. He accepted the job of Secretary of State with reluctance and with important conditions. He won Mr. Roosevelt over from a program of extreme nationalism to internationalism. His insistence on the rights of his department won him many an argument with the boards and commissions which were hastily created by the White House. He won a substantial diplomatic triumph at Moscow last year, and very few foreigners achieve that success. Mr. Stettinius will have a high mark to meet.