World Court
Needed Now
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The evidence of Japanese barbarism now before us has moved
American opinion far down the
road to the fearful conclusion
that the Asiatic war must be
truceless and lawless. But somehow we stop short of that conclusion,
not because we feel
mercy for the Japanese, but because we feel the lawless in
some way injure themselves.
This dilemma, perplexing as
it is, can, however, move us to
action on a neglected aspect
of our war thinking. We have
promised that those who caused
this war and those who have
violated the laws of war shall
be punished. But little has been
done to provide the means for
that laudable objective. There
is a commission at work, created by the United Nations, but
nothing seems to have been
clearly planned. And some of
us can clearly remember that
while there were threats and
commissions in the last war,
little happened to punish the
guilty.
NOT ENOUGH
This delay is the result of the
inherent difficulty of the problem. There is some law to enforce,
but not enough. There
are some courts, but not enough.
There are questions of jurisdiction that require wholly new
authority. What is necessary is
the creation of an international
authority with a new court or
courts, a code of law, a staff
of prosecutors and other functionaries.
The most constructive thinking on the subject has been
done by Prof. Sheldon Glueck
of the Harvard Law School, who
is a lawyer, as well as a criminologist of distinction.
Prof. Glueck proposes that the
United Nations set up now—not after the armistice—an international court with a staff
of prosecutors and other functionaries. For the guidance of
this court, there should be a
new code of international criminal law. Existing laws and conventions are not adequate to
deal with many of the offenses
involved, particularly those of
high officials of Axis states and
those of their allies in non-Axis
countries.
HASTE URGED
The new code should definitely define the question of responsibility. In the farcical Leipzig
trials after the last war, only
six convictions were obtained.
Two of the six escaped; the rest
got off with short terms of imprisonment.
There are many reasons why
some such program should be
adopted very soon. In the first
place, the validation of such a
plan must be carried through
by the legislative bodies of the
various United Nations. The evidence must be collected and
cases prepared before the evidence gets "cold." Above all, the
righteous indignation of the public must not be frittered away
in long wrangling after the armistice.
It's all very well to make dire
threats about punishing the enemies of civilization, but the
practical means of enforcing
such threats must be prepared
now.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.