The Christmas pronouncement of Pope Pius XII may well prove to be the most important definition of political principle to come out of this long war. Unlike the expressions of the foremost statesmen of this war, or even those of Wilson in the last war, the Pope's statement cuts through the generalities of freedom, self-determination and democracy to the precise and vital meaning of these phrases. It is an essay on meaning and substance, rather than a re-statement of wordy aspiration. Closely compared with the Pope's 1939 message, it shows the ripening of his thought after his five years as a witness of world disintegration. In that year which now seems so long ago, the Pope stressed, as conditions of a just and honorable peace, the independence of small as well as large nations, the "progressive disarmament" of all nations, the establishment of a juridical institution to adjust disputes and the rights of all nations, populations and racial minorities.

A NEW POINT

In this 1944 message, the Pope goes beyond these fine and necessary international objectives. He makes the new and tremendously important point that true international action for peace is rooted in the internal quality of the states that make up the international community. True, this is superficially what Wilson said 25 years ago. But Pius points out that democracy is far more than a political form; that the very essence of a state's policy regards the individual. It is not merely the abolition of monarchy for some form of elected leadership which he bespeaks. The individual must be "the object, not the subject" of state concern. He must be "the foundation and the end" of the state. The "moral maturity" of the citizen is what counts. And within such a state the obligation of a citizen's obedience is purchased only at the price of giving that citizen the right to criticize his government.

COMPARISON MADE

Complacent "liberals" who have made a great ado of belittling individualism can well ponder this principle. It cuts deeply into the superficialities of the past 50 years, in which all "gains" have been called "social" and all progress measured by the extent to which state power has been extended. This papal definition of democracy goes back to the beginnings of democracy in America. It has a fine kinship with the definition of democracy by the greatest of American poets, Whitman. Compare it with this, for example: "Underneath all, individuals; I swear nothing is good to me that ignores individuals, The American compact is altogether with individuals, The only government is that which makes minute of individuals." If anything can save the peace to come from those dangers ahead in what the Pope calls "the vast and thorny ground of foreign relations," this Christmas message will do so.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.