The Feudin'
in the G.O.P.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In the current Wisconsin campaign we are getting a taste of
the antagonism between Messrs.
Willkle and Dewey which may
well continue until the convention
There are, of course, the public arguments that supporters of
each use against the other.
Those arguments can be called
"stated reasons" as distinguished from "real reasons."
They are, in brief, the charge
by Willkie people that Dewey
has no convictions on foreign
policy, is too young, is not telling people where he stands on
national issues, and so on.
On the other hand, Dewey
people say Willkie is a man of
words, has no clear convictions,
is a poor executive, and is much
like F.D.R. Men of understanding in politics brush aside such
arguments as horsefeathers.
THEY REMEMBER!
After 1910, the paramount ambition of Dewey was to be Governor of New York. Dewey, who
is a far more regular party man
than Willkie, believed that he
was entitled to the nomination
for that office in 1912 on the
basis of his remarkable showing
in 1938. The Dewey people believe that Willkie attempted to
frustrate that nomination. They
point out that Willkie publicly
named 10 or a dozen men who
would be good candidates for
New York's Governorship, and
conspicuously omitted Dewey
from the list. They say that all
through the summer of 1942, before the State convention, Will-
kie-for-Governor movements
were springing up in New York,
and that some of these seemed
to originate very close to the
Willkie camp.
These efforts, Dewey people
say, were not to further an ambition to be Governor on Will-
kie's part, but to block a legitimate claim to the gubernatorial
nomination by Dewey. As party
men, Dewey's supporters are
not disturbed by the public arguments about his capacity, views,
age or experience. But they will
not easily forgive what they regard as Willkie's efforts to block
Dewey's path to the Governorship.
PARTY WILL SURVIVE'
In appraising the real basis of
the Willkie antagonism to Dewey, it should be noted that Will-
kie distrusts politicians, notably
Republican politicians. His supporters tried to win in 1940 by
a mass appeal which looked only
in part to organization support.
Now he feels keenly the opposition of these politicians. And
he sees that Dewey gets on
with them.
It is not probable that these
reasons for antagonism will endanger Republican success if either Willkle or Dewey is nominated. This is not a 'Taft-Roose-
velt fight, for that division cut
the political organization of the
party at its very roots. That is
not likely to happen this time,
because the Willkie strength
does not go to the organization-
al roots of the party, and Dewey's supporters are not the kind
of people who will destroy their
party. It is going to be a merry
scrap, all right, but the party
will survive it.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.