Break for
Machiavelli
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is not yet clear what damage the Nazis will bring to the
material treasures of Florence, but it is certain that no form of
warfare can destroy the political rules that the city on the Arno,
in its days of greatness, gave to the world. We might do worse
than recall some of that political lore while American soldiers are
moving into the city.
It was, of course, the home of Niccolo Machiavelli, perhaps the
most misunderstood and unjustly reviled man of all time. It
has even been held that Nazism itself owes its bloody principle
of politics to Machiavelli. That is not so. The story goes, to
the effect that from Frederick the Great and Napoleon to Mussolini
and Hitler, Machiavelli has been the teacher of tyrants. I do not
know how much Mussolini and Hitler studied the Florentine, but
the fatal mistakes of both these tyrants show that they must have
been mighty superficial readers.
HIS MISFORTUNE
The misfortune of Machiavelli has been that most people know
only of the more cynical and amoral passages in only one of
his books, "The Prince." It is true that in "The Prince," which
was written as a handbook for the dictator, Lorenzo de Medici,
he utterly divorced the principles of political power from the
established moral law. "The Prince," for the preservation of
the state, might secretly lie, steal and murder, while preserving
for public view the virtues of kindness, generosity and honor,
he said. But over and over "The Prince" makes it clear that these
are not rules for the best and most permanent of states. More
important still, it makes the point that a prince must succeed
and that his intelligence must be greater than his villainy. In
the cases of Mussolini and Hitler, judgment, calculation, foresight
and strategy were all wrong. Machiavelli could and did foresee
the factors which the modern tyrants have overlooked.
If they had read him, they would have learned, for example,
that a state should seek friendly allies, rather than subjects.
They would have learned that people will destroy those rulers
who steal their goods.
Machiavelli was a military strategist as well as a political
expert. He was the first great advocate of a mobilized citizen
army, rather than mercenaries. He said, in effect, that the military
power of a nation is the sum total of its mobilized resources.
This should have stopped the modern tyrants from an attempt
which brought against their own relatively weak nations the
resources of vastly greater ones.
Hitler might learn even now, as his generals must know, that
talk of the "Fortress of Germany" is the bunk. Machiavelli
made it clear that the only use of fortresses in war is to concentrate
forces temporarily in one spot while preparing to fight elsewhere.
So, the whole notion of Germany as a fortress is silly; since, after
the walls fall, there is nowhere else for the war to go.
FREEDOM IS BEST
Above all, Machiavelli stressed that government by princes is
defective and temporary. He pointed out that republican government
and economic freedom are interdependent and together form the
best basis for enduring states. The people are, he said, the best
princes. In the long run, they are wiser than their rulers and
just as grateful and generous. Republics keep faith better than
dictatorships, perhaps because their actions are slower and more
deliberate. The prince will change with passing conditions, but
the multitudinous citizens of a republic will always find leaders
to suit new and changing needs.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
No question of changing
horses in the middle of the
stream.
Kansas City Star
The last drops.
New York Times
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.