Last-Minute
Bugaboos
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In the final day of the campaign, voters should be prepared for last-minute appeals by high officials, diplomatic and otherwise, to the effect that the United Nations will fall apart if Dewey is elected. It is well to remember that Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy made a telling speech for Roosevelt at the last minute, four years ago. It will also be well to remember that Mr. Kennedy urged people to vote for Roosevelt to keep us out of war.
This time it will not be Mr. Kennedy. And the theme will be different. The same President who permitted his Ambassador to assure isolationists that he wanted to help the President keep us out of war may now permit high officials to tell us to keep the President because our British and Russian relations depend on his knowledge and friendship. We will be told how dearly Uncle Joe loves the squire of Hyde Park and how Uncle Joe will be very, very sad if his great buddy is defeated.
FRANTIC APPEALS
The way to appraise such frantic partisan appeals is to consider exactly what the diplomatic situation is among the Big Four of the United Nations. Russia, through Stalin, is winning her diplomatic victories by her armies. She has what she wants in Poland, in the Baltic states and in the Balkans. She will stand pat on these in peace negotiations. Her vast losses in the war and her tremendous power now will provide the basis for her moral and physical claim.
There is nothing that President Roosevelt knows or can do to change that. And a realistic Stalin will deal with Mr. Dewey with complete confidence, just as he will deal with Mr. Roosevelt. Because his confidence rests not on faith in his allies, but on faith in his armies. It is only the hysterical New Dealers who profess worry about him and they are not really worried about Stalin, but about their own jobs or position.
THE CHINA CASE
The fallacy of this story of the indispensable President is shown by what has happened in China. The picture we now get from such sound newspapermen as Brooks Atkinson of the New York Times and Preston Grover of the Associated Press presents a grim picture of friction and failure by Messrs. Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin in China. Apparently, Chiang has been more concerned with maintaining his position as No. 1 warlord than in playing the game with Messrs. Stalin, Churchill and Roosevelt. And the whole effort is now revealed as a messy failure.
The globe-trotting Mr. Wallace came back from China and told us that we must please re-elect the President because the "Generalissimo" might not like to deal with a new President. We wonder what mistakes Mr. Dewey could make in dealing with Chiang that Mr. Roosevelt has not already made.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.