Is Inflation
a Bugaboo?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The course of prices, production and employment over the
past year has caused a good
many people to amend their
views on the prospects of postwar inflation. The signs pointing
toward deflation seem to be
increasingly distinct, and if current belief in the inevitability
of inflation turns out to be
groundless, two men, Dr. Julius
Hirsch and George E. Shea Jr.,
editor of Barron's Weekly, can
say that they told us so some
time back.
Barron's has reprinted, under
the title, "The Inflation Bugaboo," a series of articles dealing
with various aspects of the
subject which they published
during the past year. It is impossible to offer a fair summary
of the arguments and Hirsch's
and Shea's comments on them
in a short column, but the basis
of their view is simple enough.
PROVED TRUE
Dr. Hirsch, an economist of
world note who served as price
administrator in Germany in
the last war, and who served
under Leon Henderson in the
Office of Price Administration,
contended a year ago that the
"inflationary gap" anticipated
by Washington economists
would be closed by two forces.
In the first place, he said, American production would exceed
all government estimates. In the
second place, the savings of the
American people would be far
greater than expected. Both predictions now seem more than
verified.
Hirsch pointed out that, while
the production of many forms
of durable goods for civilians
was being drastically reduced,
the net loss in production was
being balanced by an enormous
expansion in the production of
nondurable goods. At the very
moment last year when pessimists were predicting an American famine in 1944, Hirsch predicted an abundance of food.
That has come true. His prediction of large production in
civilian consumers' goods has
also proved true.
EXCHANGE OF VIEWS
In addition to the Hirsch and
Shea articles, the booklet reprints a spirited exchange of
views between Hirsch and John
W. Scoville of the Chrysler
Corp. Mr. Scoville objects to the
Hirsch thesis by pointing out
that War Bonds are not savings,
that they represent a great interest in paper money, that
large production will follow a
brisk demand for goods and labor and that higher prices and
higher wages will be the result. Hirsch answers that the
bonds are savings, if the people who hold them feel that
they are and treat them as such.
It is a fair assumption, he says,
that those who buy them will
be just as concerned in keeping them for future security as
in converting them into goods
immediately after the war.
Since the deterioration of German resistance indicates the
sudden and not-too-distant end
of the war in Europe, the day
of reckoning in domestic economics is getting close.
Released by Associated Newspapers