The New
Generation
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CHICAGO, June 29—A lot of
pretty silly stuff goes out over
the wires from every convention.
But a certain line of talk has appeared this time under the
names of some anti-Republican
writers that deserves special
note. They say that this Republican convention was dull,
cut and dried, and heavy with
defeatism.
It is true that this convention
had none of the surprise that
characterized the Republican
convention in Philadelphia in
1910, nor the brawling that the
Democrats revealed in 1924 in
New York, nor the intense moment when California and Texas
gave Roosevelt the nomination
in 1932.
When it is pretty certain that
a candidate has it cinched in
advance the show disappoints
seekers of thrills. But the quiet
deliberation that takes place is
good for the party and for the
country. Some element of intelligence and judgment goes
into the decisions that are made
and a better campaign is the result. After all a convention is
not held for purposes of entertainment.
A WAR GOING ON
Those who were disappointed
at the lack of theater in this
convention forget that a war is
going on. The wonder is not
that the convention lacks the
holiday element but that there
is a convention at all. No other
combatant nation in this war
even stops for an election. And
it is also forgotten that when
the preparations were made for
this convention it was anticipated that the great invasion
might be an overshadowing competitor for attention.
In any event every responsible
person connected with the preparations, including those who
were to make speeches, was convinced that only a somber, reverent nonpartisan tone would be
appropriate for the fearful background of the moment.
THE CHOICE OF DEWEY
Another factor that made the
convention very much in the
tradition of popular government
is that no bosses and no advertising campaign put over the
successful candidates. There
were no vast barrages of telegrams or anxious telephonings.
The reason that Dewey attracted
such support is that wherever
the people had a chance to express themselves they showed
overwhelming preference for the
man in Albany. It is reported
that when someone asked Mr.
Pew of Pennsylvania what the
leaders of the State were going
to do he answered that the people had given the leaders no
option. Imagine that being said
by the cynical Penrose in 1912.
Here at long last is a nomination made without deals.
The platform is excessively
long, but it is an honest effort
honestly arrived at to meet the
issues ahead of us.
The finest note of the convention was sounded by Mr. Hoover
when he said: "The convention is
handling the leadership of the
Republican party, to a new generation."
Those words were spoken to a
young man named Dewey.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.