The glaring light that beats
upon a Presidential candidate
is going to reveal a good many
traits of Gov. Dewey known
now only to the few who are
his intimates. Some of these
things are going to excite un-
bounded admiration; others will
be used by the New Deal to in-
jure him. It will be well to
recognize these things now.
Dewey is, first of all, a stickler
for organization. His private affairs,
his office, down to the last ink
spot, his clerical staff, his speeches,
his letters, his telephone calls and
his political machinery are arranged
with meticulous care. Precision is
everywhere in the Dewey picture.
He has carried this rule of exactness
into every aspect of the vast
government of New York State.
He found, to cite an example,
that the State police in the many
years of Smith, Roosevelt and Lehman
had been operating as a group of
unco-ordinated districts. The head
of each district had been operating
in a routine largely determined by
himself. Wherever a State police
operates, whether in the Adirondack
Mountains or among the Finger
Lakes, he is now conscious of Albany
supervision. That is good for him and
good for the State.
A VIGOROUS PART
Political managers in Dewey campaigns
are not free agents. The candidate
knows and, like a general, directs
what they are to do. In 1912 he
was an intimate part of the strictly
political organization and participated
in every decision.
This insistence by Dewey on having
a personal hand in details is not
resented by his subordinates. They
know he expects no blind obedience.
They can talk back to him forcibly
so long as they stick to the subject
at issue. And if their argument is
good, he is willing to change his mind.
The good relations that prevail
between him and his subordinates
are shown by the fact that for years
there has been little change in personnel
among the people who have worked
with him. It is not strict accountability
that causes breaks in the relations
between a man and his coworkers. It
is indecision and misunderstanding.
THE CONTRAST
Mr. Roosevelt is superficially a kindly,
easy man to work with. But in a
dozen years the turnover among the
people around him has been enormous.
That in large part is because he seems
to agree when he does not really agree.
Dewey's insistence on knowing the
facts is going to be misunderstood at
first. But no spirit of contention lurks
behind this trait. Dewey has a genuine
and eager curiosity. He wants to know
everything relevant to the solution
of a government problem and to shape
his judgments around the hard core
of facts. Lunches and brainstorms are
not the charts by which he could
guide the ship of state. Many people
feel our national affairs call for this
Dewey passion for order.

Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.