Our Foreign
Affairs Mess
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The writer of a recent editorial in the Montgomery Advertiser, replying to something mentioned by me in a column, has correctly pointed out that it is important, in considering foreign relations, always to distinguish between foreign policy and foreign relations. If this excellent distinction could be put before the American people forcefully enough, even the "bellhop" advisers on foreign affairs, to whom the President recently referred, might have a clearer handle of judgment. The foreign policy of a nation should have continuity. Its foreign relations are conditions created by passing circumstances. If policy is sufficiently clear, the day-to-day administration of foreign relations can operate within that policy. Thus in the determination of policy clarity is essential: In foreign relations competence, shrewdness and common sense are required.

WHAT NOW?
On that basis, where does the United States stand at this critical moment of the war? Such expressions of foreign policy as Mr. Hull's 17 points are composed of many ingredients. Most of Mr. Hull's points represent enduring principles, held since our country was established and announced repeatedly by Republican and Democratic Secretaries of State alike. But those principles are very broad—too broad, in fact, to guide the decisions that must be made in the next few years. Yet, except for its generality, Mr. Hull's statement of foreign policy was adequate, but the public is asking not for a restatement of policy. It is asking for an account of foreign relations. The public asked for bread; Mr. Hull gave it a spacious edifice of stone.

HASTY DECISIONS
It is in the realm of foreign relations that just and fair criticism can be made. In the first place, the President, to an altogether too great extent, tries to administer foreign affairs himself. In peacetime this was undesirable, but not so dangerous. In wartime the necessity of dividing his time and energy among many concerns has not permitted him to give the required thought either to foreign policy or foreign relations. Consequently decisions have often been hasty and half-considered. In administering foreign relations, moreover, too many semiofficial and detached people have been employed by the President. If, as many defenders of the President admit, the State Department is not sufficiently competent to conduct foreign relations, why has it not been properly staffed and reorganized? The reorganization announced some time ago was not a real one. What is needed is new blood and plenty of it. For this failure Mr. Hull is not to be blamed, for he made clear 11 years ago that he was concerned with policy, not administration. The responsibility rests upon the President and the various Undersecretaries of State.

Copyright 1944 Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.