Stabilizing
the World
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The most important thing to
know about the proposed $8,000,-
000,000 stabilization fund is that
it is a gesture of great "moral
restraint" on the part of the
United States. If we accept it,
we will be indicating that we are
more interested in the long-range
economic stability of our commercial competitors than in an
immediate advantage to ourselves. That may be a wise
choice for us. But it is well to
understand that such is the
choice.
The proposed stabilization
plan, in which we would provide
one-third of the gold, is essentially
a huge credit pool. It will
permit exporting nations, such
as England, to sell goods to impoverished countries on long-
term credit. Since the very life
of England's trade has depended
upon the existence of her foreign
investments abroad, and since a
great part of these investments
has been wiped out, the future
trade must rest on the extent to
which the buying countries can
get credit for new imports from
England. That credit can partially be provided by the proposed fund.
LET US LOOK AT IT
In a sense, therefore, we
should be providing the means
by which England, France and
other industrial countries might
effectively compete with us in
foreign markets. But before we
dismiss the plan as just another
Santa Claus role for Uncle Sam,
let us look at a very great postwar danger.
Since the good customer is not
always the neediest customer,
the impoverished countries after
this war may not assure the
restoration of the old level of
trade. There will be a contracted
market for those countries like
England, France, Holland and
possibly Germany, whose lives
depend on imports for which
they must pay by exports. When
the customers of these countries
have no money, and when they
cannot afford to grant credit, the
danger of cutthroat competition
grows.
And the simplest way to undersell a competitor is to make
money cheaper by inflation. This
is called "exchange dumping."
It is very dangerous because it
can easily and does, in fact,
usually end in runaway inflation
and in disaster all around. Exchange dumping is like the exclamation of the man who
jumped from the top of a building and called out, when halfway down, "This is fine, provided
it ends well."
WHAT IT MEANS
If we propose to provide the
means for preventing catastrophe by accepting the form of
"moral restraint," which is the
stabilization fund, we should
frankly face certain collateral
obligations. We cannot ourselves
have a large part of the foreign
trade that we thus offer our competitors.
And we cannot go half way by
tampering with our currency
while we are trying to stabilize
other nations' currencies.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.