The Dewey
Chance Here
RY RAYMOND MOLEY
LOS ANGELES.—Expert opinion
throughout the country probably
regards the chances of the
Roosevelt-Truman ticket in California
as being greater than in any
other Far Western State.
Betting odds in this State are
heavily against Mr. Dewey. But
my 10 days out here have convinced
me that there are many angles in
the situation that the experts and
the betting people have not considered.
In the first place, there are a
number of polls that have not been
published which show a surprising
undercurrent of sentiment away from
the President. Campaign contributions
are flowing into the Dewey war chest
at a rate that reflects no defeatism.
Some of the C.I.O.-P.A.C.-sponsored
candidates for Congress are not running
well, and one or two are in real trouble.
WARREN'S AID
Registration figures so far available
in the big industrial centers show that
the Hillman machine has been no marvel
of efficiency. Gov. Warren, who is immensely
popular, is all for Dewey. The Republican
organization has not been strong for many
years, but it now has little factionalism
and is operating well. Finally, there is
no certainty that the immense new industrial
population will turn out at election in
overwhelming numbers.
Mr. Dewey's visit to this State must
be accounted a success, although many
Republicans are disappointed in the subject
of his speech at the monster meeting in
Los Angeles. Their enthusiasm was restored
somewhat by his Oklahoma speech, which
has since been rebroadcast several times.
Every effective speech by the Republican
candidate from here on will be eagerly
heard in California and will affect the result.
THE OPPORTUNITY
Since registration in California, notably
in Los Angeles County, has for years been
overwhelmingly Democratic, the success of
Mr. Dewey must depend on getting some
hundreds of thousands of voters thus registered
to vote for him. Most of the so-called
Democrats are far from orthodox, however,
and they have always been attracted by
nonpartisan appeals. Gov. Warren won them
that way in 1942. It can be done again, if
certain lines of attack are aggressively
followed.
Californians can be profoundly influenced
by the Pearl Harbor issue. Many thousands
of the registered Democrats in the State
are disturbed about Communist influences
in the Democratic party. Opinion in California
has never been happy about the attitude
of Washington toward the Pacific war. If
Mr. Dewey aggressively presents these
issues, the effect in California will be important.
IT CAN BE DONE
Much of the responsibility for carrying
California will rest, however, on the broad
shoulders of Gov. Warren. If he actively
campaigns up and down the State and beats
the bushes, as he did two years ago, he can
win tremendous numbers of votes for Mr.
Dewey. Certainly, he is needed here more
than in Illinois and Ohio, where the national
committee has sent him this week.
Messrs. Bricker and Truman will be in
California later in the month. The advantage
in that competition will be with Bricker, who
is well liked here. The President's many
advantages in California can and may be overcome
by the Dewey campaign. But it will take
plenty of toil and sweat.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of Commerce
Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.