French Plans
for Security
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The nationalization of some
of the French coal mines and
Gen. de Gaulle's visit to Russia
highlight a significant trend of
thought in French industry and
politics. That trend is toward
closer future relations between
France and the Soviets.
It is hardly possible that Stalin
will be overly impressed by
the gesture of nationalization of
the coal mines. To the French
individualist and bourgeois,
however, such a step will seem
a long stride toward socialism.
GENUINE TREND
But that the people who are
influential in the new France
are genuinely desirous of close
relations with Russia is undeniable. As always with France,
security against Germany is
paramount. The experience of
an influential French industrialist, M. Ernest Mercier, is significant. M. Mercier is a very important figure in the French system for the distribution of electricity. Twenty years ago he
was a champion of closer relations with republican Germany.
When that failed, he was one
of those who favored closer economic relations with Russia.
During the German occupation
the group who favored this policy was without influence. Before the war some French "capitalists" under the leadership of
P. E. Flandin were taken in by
the spurious promises of Hitler.
But even the most stupid of
that group discovered their error.
That leaves the advocates of
closer Russian economic ties in
an important spot in present-day France. They see the economic recovery of France from
German occupation a fairly easy
task. After all, the 50 per cent
of France that is agricultural
is comparatively unharmed.
INDUSTRIAL ANGLE
On the industrial side, France
has the assurance of large buying power in the United States.
The republic has $2,000,000,000
in gold over here, only a part
of which will be needed for new
American industrial machinery.
The future security of their
country from tragedies like
those which they have experienced three times in 70 years
they hope to attain in three
ways.
The first is to strengthen their
own country. That will win for
them the benevolent cooperation of their neighbors.
Second, a customs union with
Holland, Belgium and Luxembourg.
Third, as close relations with
Soviet Russia as the differences
between French and Soviet economies and psychology can permit. French industry is apparently willing to concede the nationalization of some of its parts,
this will satisfy that public
opinion favoring Communism,
which is a significant element
in present French politics.
Dependence on Great Britain,
the United States and some sort
of world organization is an additional hope of French industrial leaders.