Mr. Nelson and Trip to China
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The circumstances surrounding
Donald M. Nelson's trip to
China show clearly how hollow
and insincere are the major arguments for the fourth term.
Surely, the public cannot fall for
the indispensability and the
Commander-in-Chief arguments
after this.
Everyone knows, after 11
years of experience with Mr.
Roosevelt, that he has a standard
pattern for getting out of
embarrassing situations. When
two subordinates disagree, he
doesn't sit down and work out
their differences or decide that
one or the other is right. He
talks to each one separately,
listens casually to their stories,
and then gives each the impression that he favors him. Then
he figures out a way to keep
the disputants apart by concocting a plan to send one or the
other on a long journey. This,
he apparently believes, saves
him labor and, what is more important, the embarrassment of
having one or the other resign
and tell the public the reasons
for his resignation.
SOME EXAMPLES
In 1934, when Gen. Hugh
Johnson's N.R.A. was providing
plenty of headaches, the President apparently decided to ease
the situation by getting the
forthright general as far away
from Washington as possible.
So, according to Johnson's account, he was called to the
White House and thoroughly
"buttered," which is White
House language for the giving
of flattering encouragement.
Then the President explained to
Johnson that he considered it
very important that the general
go to Europe to look over the
European industrial situation.
Gen. Johnson snorted, "If you
want me to resign I will resign,
but I see no reason to go to
Europe." Johnson did not go
to Europe.
A year before, there was unfolded to me at the White House
the grand idea for my taking a
trip to Hawaii. It seemed that
Louis Howe had been concocting some wonderful plans for
making over the law-enforcement machinery of the islands
and that I was just the person
to carry them out. I declined.
IS THIS THE WAY?
It is quite clear that Mr. Nelson's plans for reconversion are
opposed by the Army. It is also
clear that Charles E. Wilson,
Nelson's deputy, is sympathetic
with the Army view. And so
the President permits Mr. Nelson to make plans for reconversion according to the Nelson
pattern, sends Mr. Nelson to
China and assumes that Mr.
Wilson will carry out the Nelson plans. Meanwhile, however,
Mr. Wilson has resigned in a
huff. It should be noted that
Nelson's trip will keep him
away until well after election.
How does this square with the
Commander-in-Chief argument?
Here is a general who is directing the very important job of
reconversion. He disagrees with
certain other generals. So, the
Commander-in-Chief sends the
first general to China, just when
the battle of the home front
begins. How would that sort of
thing look in an actual military
operation? Certainly, no commander-in-chief wins battles that
way.
It must be kept in mind that
we are not ready for the home
front postwar battle. The moment Germany surrenders, we
face economic confusion. If ever
we needed on the job the man
who directed war mobilization,
it is at the moment when demobilization begins. If chaos
comes, let it be remembered
that the Commander-in-Chief
sent away his general just before the battle.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Russian Victory Arch.
New Orleans Times-Picayune
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.