Veto Row
Defines Issue
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Some days ago this column
suggested that we were having
a novel form of government in
Washington—government by
veto. Since then the tax veto
has dramatized this intolerable
trend. It was, apparently, the
form of the veto that finally
aroused the self-respect of the
President’s followers in the two
houses. For the veto message
was not even an argument; it
was a political speech—an old
corny melodramatic bit that
linked its author with the numerous and good needy, and
linked those who disagreed with
the few bad greedy.
The miscalculation was in
hurling this stale piece of Populism not at the Republicans or
the long-suffering businessmen,
but at a Congress in which all
the responsible Democratic leaders—the big four—have, for
years, accepted the bad principle that they are nominally officers of the Congress, but actually spokesmen for the administration. And since Mr. Barkley
said he regrets nothing in his
record of leadership, we have no
reason to assume that the essential issue has been resolved.
WHAT IT REALLY IS
For what has been happening
all these years is an effort by
the President to establish a distorted form of parliamentary
government upon the form of
our traditional constitutional
system. If it were a really responsible government, the evil
would be less, for in a parliamentary government such a
rejection of the President-Prime
Minister’s advice as has happened would result in his resignation and a new election. So
Mr. Roosevelt’s form of parliamentary government is a heads-
I-win-tails-you-lose system.
The Democratic leaders have
been willing helpers in this effort to substitute Presidential
direction for mutual independence of the Congress and the
Executive.
Messrs. Barkley, Rayburn, McCormack and others will soon
meet a simple test. Will they, if
they recognize themselves as
officers of Congress, refuse to
continue the morning children’s
hour at the White House, where
they have been told for years
what the chief of their party
wanted them to do?
MEETING THE TEST?
The President knows that he
should not interfere with Congressional independence.
Some years ago, friends of Mr.
Rayburn, then candidate for the
majority leadership, asked the
President to help him. The President took the high ground that
he couldn’t interfere with Congress. But, later, he did help
Barkley become leader of the
Senate majority.
The President was right the
first time, wrong the second.
But what can we expect if,
after drawing the issue with
Congress, the President wins
as the polls in 1944? We can
expect a further, and this time
more determined, effort to subvert our form of government.
Will Mr. Barkley and those
who cheered him in the Senate
meet that test?
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.