Is the Law
Discarded?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Whenever, in the course of a
recent visit to three States, I
heard people discuss the aftermath of the Montgomery Ward
case, a single conclusion was invariably offered. That, while the
merits of the early controversy
were confused by the rapidity of
the action the government took,
the public statements of Attorney
General Biddle left no doubt
about the dangers to liberty that
were and still are involved in
his interpretations of executive
power.
In Washington I found even
stalwart New Dealers who
doubted Mr. Biddle's wisdom in
going in person to the scene of
the controversy. But New Dealers
see no fault in Mr. Biddle's
extraordinary claims for executive
power not specifically granted
in the law covering the case.
That, of course, is because the
current New Deal has evolved a
sort of sociological theory which
presumably gives the Executive
certain vague and unwritten
power in war. Perhaps it was
the Attorney General's misfortune to be compelled to defend
the administration in a court of
law. For what he was induced
to say there at first is more
alarming to thoughtful people
than the picture of Mr. Avery's
forcible ejection from his office.
SOME METAPHYSICS
Mr. Biddle's argument about
the President's great "reserve of
power" and the like, which
leaped into the clouds of metaphysics, summons up memories
of other laboring lawyers in
other times who also sought to
put legal dress upon arbitrary
power. It suggests the embarrassed Littleton, arguing as a reluctant solicitor general in the
immortal case of the King
against John Hampden, 300
years ago. It may not be amiss
to recall the nature of Littleton's
defense of arbitrary power.
Then, as now, military necessity was argued. The learned
Littleton offered several Latin
axioms which, fortunately, Mr.
Biddle spared us. One of them,
freely translated, was that "the
law of the time must regulate
the law of the place." Another
appears in the following passage:
"Imminent perils to a state dispensed with ordinary proceedings in law; inter arma silent
leges. Nay, if there are but
rumors of war, laws are silent."
It is worthy of note that the
name of the defendant in this
case became famous in the history of liberty; that Littleton,
despite further honors, never
relished his participation in the
dispute; and, finally, that the
vague theory of executive power
which he expounded vanished
from English law shortly after
the case ended.
NEVER DIFFERENT
The point that must be made
over and over in connection with
the Ward case is that the new
sociological theories expounded
by New Deal lawyers bear
names unlike those used by the
King's lawyers centuries ago, but
have the same cloudy lack of
definition. They are obviously
designed to cloak the ever-present and never-changing background of arbitrary power. The
words change with the styles of
the time, but arbitrary power is
never different. Nor is the answer to such assertions as Biddle
made subject to change. It is
now, as it was when Littleton
lived, that law, however imperfect, is better than anyone's discretion, because law is ascertainable and understandable.
The President complains that
the press did not tell the whole
story of the case. Here, perhaps,
is one footnote on the incident
which has been omitted until
now. So I commend, as required
reading for Mr. Biddle, the case
of Rex vs. Hampden.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Daily News
Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.