The Ordeal
of the South
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
While Democratic revolts in
Texas and other Southern States
may in the long run come to
nothing there is plenty of evidence that intelligent southern
Democrats realize what is happening to their party. Let us,
for a moment, look at it through
their eyes.
They see their hand being
forced by a number of pressure
groups which are, in reality, political parties disguised as committees and associations. They
see these groups practically selecting the candidates for whom
Democrats must vote. The C.I.O.
Political Action Committee, with
a treasury probably as large as
the whole party ever had in
normal times, has no Democratic
tradition and no real community
of interest with the leaders of
southern Democracy.
RADICALS IN SADDLE
They see the discredited Communist party, alien to everything in southern tradition,
make the insincere gesture of
changing its name, which means
only that this group, instead
of putting its own name on the
ballot, will appropriate for its
purposes the name and candidates of the Democrats. They
see two radical parties spring
up in New York and follow the
same line of preference as the
C.I.O. and the Communists.
They see, holding the effective party machinery together,
an assorted lot of job-holders
whose loyalty is not to the party, but to the President. This
heterogeneous group will dominate the convention, name the
candidates, and write the platform.
The common denominator in
this motley line-up is the fourth
term. And what is still more
distasteful, the radicals propose
to make the South vote for Wallace, too. The southern Democrats see, too late now, that the
only chance of winning that
they have is to accept the candidate of the radical groups and
the job-holders.
JUST A HOPE?
The southern Democrats cannot help but see that if Mr.
Roosevelt is elected, the radical
groups will, in effect, control
the party.
But Mr. Roosevelt's defeat
would break the radical popular front and destroy the grip
of the job-holders on the party
machinery.
It would also leave the old-
time southern Democrats in
possession of their State party
machinery.
Obviously, then, thousands of
Southerners will vote one way
and hope another way.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.