What Fate for War Criminals?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
While Americans have been
trying feverishly to watch two
wars and a political campaign at
the same time, a number of developments in Europe have
passed virtually unnoticed, although they are bound to grow
with importance in the months
ahead. High among these is the
question what shall be done with
those responsible for war crimes
in Europe.
The general disposition of Germany will present not only
problems of personal guilt, but
social, economic and religious
questions involving a whole nation. But the punishment of
individual offenders raises specific points of personal, moral
and legal responsibilities.
ROMANIAN CLUB
The best early indication of
what is to come is on the Russian side of the war. For Russia
has already overrun several
countries and no doubt has a
cageful of assorted suspects.
Since, of all these conquered
countries, Romania did most to
injure Russia, the prisoners captured there will provide the first
interesting clue to the future.
The infamous Prime Minister,
Jon Antonescu, is already under
lock and key. His personal guilt
is clear. He declared war on
Russia, devastated Russian territory and ordered the death of
tens of thousands of innocent
people. Such a puppet head of
a state is just as guilty as Hitler.
The collaborationist head of a
state was under no orders from
a superior. He did not have to
remain a head of state. He
gambled and he lost, and his life
is small recompense for his sin.
In a somewhat different category is a military commander,
either of German or of collaborationist nationality. When
commanded by the head of his
state to commit an infamous
crime against international custom or law, his life may be forfeited if he hesitates. A basis of
fixing responsibility on such
commanders will be determined,
no doubt, on a legal theory which
will result in their punishment.
THE TRUE TEST
Membership in the Nazi party,
the SS, or their equivalents in
satellite countries will figure
largely. In most cases, a rise to
power in the German army or in
civil administration was achieved
with eyes wide open to what
Nazism required. Thus, the plea
of military obedience can be
swept aside, and punishment can
be imposed.
In a quite different position
are the so-called intellectuals
who worked on political, scientific and military plans. These
people are more guilty than the
generals of the army. Of all
people, these planners of death
had the least excuse for their
actions. Personal ambition alone
urged them on. Mental achievement is not coerced. It is voluntary and premeditated.
The best example of this is
Doktor Karl Clodius, who concluded in peacetime the first
agreement with Romania and
bartered, in cold blood, the severance of Transylvania from Romania, in return for the gift of
Bessarabia and the trans-Dniester territory of Russia. This,
after the German attack on Russia, was carried out. He planned
for the sale of Romanian oil and
for the establishment of "working camps" in Romania for Germany. Every outrage that grew
from this deal is blood on the
hands of Doktor Clodius. A diplomatic officer is not in the same
category as a general. He can
quit easily. He has a better
means of foreseeing the political
events which always precede
military moves. And there are
thousands like Doktor Clodius in
Europe. They should not escape.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.