The Governors to Aid Dewey
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Candidate Dewey's plan to
give the 26 Republican Governors specific responsibility for
carrying their own States for
the party ticket is an intensely
practical idea. It is an expression of the trend of the last
two years, by which these Governors, politically successful in
their respective States, have
taken over the leadership of
their party.
State has been given a political
rebirth by these Governors. The
forward step at Mackinac was
largely their work. The big issue of State responsibility
versus Federal bureaucracy is
largely of the Governors' making. Their own prestige has been
enormously enhanced by the
convention's action in selecting
an all-Governor ticket.
SIMPLIFYING JOB
The populations of the States
represented by these Republican Governors is about two-
thirds of the population of the
United States. These States
will cast 330 electoral votes,
which is 73 more than the required majority.
The national campaign this
year will be hampered by the
difficulty of managing things in
every State through the national
chairman's office. The experience of the new Republican
chairman, Herbert Brownell Jr.,
new in national politics, has
been limited almost exclusively
to New York. He probably is
not familiar with many factional
problems in the States. His task
of running a national campaign
will be complicated by telephone, railroad and air transport congestion. With the Governors on tap, his job will be
greatly simplified.
The Governors are the titular
heads of the party in their
States. They are thoroughly
familiar with every political
complication in their domains.
They have already carried their
States—in some cases more
than once—and many of them
are running again. To join their
causes with the national ticket
will make it more certain that
there will be united action by
the State organizations for both
national and State tickets.
Through both regional and national Governors' conferences
during these war years, the
Governors have become well
acquainted with each other.
They know how to work together. They can form an effective team in this campaign.
The Governors are a personable group of men. Their average age is 51 years, which, incidentally, is 10 years less than
the age of the prospective Republican chairmen of the 12
most important committees of
the House of Representatives.
All this aside, there is a compelling reason why it is better
to put the emphasis upon Republican Governors, rather than
upon Republican Senators and
Representatives. There is much
to criticize in the voting record
of the Republicans in Congress.
In far too many cases their
votes have been in sharp contrast to the provisions of the
new Republican platform—a fact
which Democratic orators will
drool about on their tongues
with glee over and over this
year. Criticisms resting on the
record, as these would, cannot
be effectively directed at the
Governors.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.