The Coast
and the G.O.P.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
LOS ANGELES, Jan. 5.—This
summary covers a visit of two
weeks in California and Ore-
gon. It is based upon conversa-
tions with newspapermen, pub-
lic officials, businessmen and
other it has to do with a sub-
ject. It is to Republican Presidential nomination.
Willkie is strong in Oregon.
His good friend, Ralph Cake of
that State, is apparently scheduled to be the Willkie pre-
convention manager. Cake is a
respected and prominent lawyer
who fully believes in his
candidate but who speaks realistically of the problems in-
volved in his nomination. As
things stand now in Oregon
Willkie looks like the State’s
choice at the convention. But
there is strong Dewey strength
and considerable MacArthur sentiment in the State. It may be
that there will be a Dewey or
a MacArthur slate in the Presidential race, but there is no
such plan now.
DIFFERENT IN CALIFORNIA
The situation is quite different
in California. A majority
of those best qualified to judge
believe that Dewey is the strongest
of all candidates in the
State. After him come Willkie
and MacArthur. But as Californians see it, the choice of
delegation at the Presidential
primaries on May 2 means
much more than a mere expression of preference for one candidate over
another candidate.
The strength and unanimity
of the action of the delegation
at the convention will measure
the extent to which California
will get recognition in the platform plans and ticket of the
party. Hence, there is in preparation a slate of delegates
pledged to Warren as California’s Presidential choice. Warren
will undoubtedly permit the
running of his name, and will, if successful in the primary, be the effective head of
the California delegation.
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN?
This would deny Willkie the
50 California votes which he
and his managers want very
much indeed. Willkie’s friends
have conducted various sample
polls among Republican registered voters which, they say, indicate that Willkie is ahead of
Warren. These polls are said to
show, however, that Willkie is
the choice of only about 25 to
30 per cent of the voters polled.
The point is made that the remaining 70-odd per cent would
prefer Dewey, MacArthur and
Warren might well vote, in a
two-man contest, in large part
for Warren. Willkie’s friends
have apparently not decided to
enter his name. If they do the
fight will be a stiff one, with
almost all of the press and the
Republican organization for Warren.
Since neither Dewey nor MacArthur is an active candidate,
it is not likely that either will
be entered. The California law
does not require a candidate to
be entered in the primaries to
agree to run. But if entered,
he must decline, or his name
goes on the ticket.

Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal
of Commerce.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.