What Next
in Balkans?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
There is an old saying in th
Balkans, "Who wins Czernowitz
wins the war." This may, under
present circumstances, be an exaggeration of the importance of
the city just taken by the Russians, but their presence in
Czernowitz provides the best illustration of the puzzle of Europe
on the whole of that continent of unsolved problems.
Where the Russians propose
to go is a problem of military
strategy on which this commentator has no pretensions to expertness. In forcing the pass
at Jablonica, one set of political
and military problems is opened.
On the other hand, as the Russians turn toward Ploesti and
Bucharest, another set of possibilities arises. In any event
Russia is now calling the political and diplomatic shots in the
Balkans. She will continue to
do so. The military situation
gives her that right. For the
first time the Russians are operating in the very heart of the
Balkan situation, which is the
world's supreme mess.

MOTLEY REGION
If the Russians move through
the mountains, they will be in
Transylvania, which has successively been Hungarian, Rumanian and, then, Hungarian again.
It is one of the most bitterly
contested, motley areas in Europe. North will be the more
benighted Slovak end of Czechoslovakia. The Slovaks have
never been loath to tear away
sylvania there is a tradition that
civil warfare is unceasing and
eternal. Russian diplomacy
knows that well and is equipped
to meet it.
But we need not project questions into the future to find illustrations of the political, religious and racial labyrinth into
which the war has passed. The
Russians have passed through
Bessarabia and, with the capture
of Czernowitz, dominate Bucovina. They are, therefore, well
within the pre-1914 Austrian empire. Bucovina was given to Rumania in 1919. Its population,
in order of numerical strength,
consists of Ukrainians, Rumanians, Germans, Jews, Poles and
Hungarians. There are scatterings of other races and religions
also.

GYPSY HOMELAND
And, to add a romantic touch,
Bucovina is one of the spots
where gypsies have what gypsies call a homeland. Talking
about national self-determination as applied to Bucovina and
Transylvania is like proposing
to prepare a genealogical chart
for a gypsy.
According to Molotoff's statement, Russia wants no part of
Rumania, But we cannot assume
that Russia can be indifferent
to what happens in this frontier country, which has so often
started troubles that have inflamed Europe, and which may
easily do so again.
A calm appraisal of these borderlands should suggest to
Americans that they should either propose solutions for the
care of these mixed areas or
offer thanks for whatever solution Russia may provide.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.