What Future
for Us Now?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Grantland Rice, one of the oldest and probably the best of all observers of sports, made a statement recently about baseball which has its application to all aspects of our life in the months immediately ahead.
Mr. Rice said that there is no use speculating on the 'success or failure of baseball this summer, whatever may be the quality of the enfeebled major league teams; the dominant factor will be whether the public has any interest in baseball at all once the invasion starts. Mr. Rice, a profound observer of public opinion for 40 years, says that he just can't predict what the mood of our people will be when the great Rubicon is crossed in Europe.
WE DON'T KNOW
This observation can well be pondered by everyone who is concerned with the immediate future, whether his prime interest is in the selling, buying or manufacturing sections of business, whether it is in politics, in labor, in banking or in education; whether he is in love or out of love. Here is a case where there are no experts to guide us because there are no precedents. No public relations people have the answer to our universal perplexities, and any who claim that they have are not worth employing.
The impending invasion presents a set of influences upon public opinion which has never before been experienced. The war in 1861-65 grew gradually in intensity for at least two years. Then the public had no such knowledge of what was afoot as we now have. In 1917 and 1918, American troops moved by degree into an already manned line of attack. In the present case a vast army, predominantly American, is poised for the beginning of sudden and overall warfare of unprecedented ferocity. We don't know where the invasion will be or what it will be like.
WHAT WE NEED
Home-front psychology, thus overhung by a sense of coming events, is beginning to influence everything. It is slowing down industrial disputes, except in specific cases like Ward's. It is silencing talk of inflation. It is increasing labor shortages in some places and reducing them in others. It is blacking out talk of postwar planning.
That is why wise people hesitate to make predictions now. And of all the things that cannot be predicted, the course of the next political campaign and its result rank high. Even speculation on such matters seems like an irrelevance, an impertinence. People are not saying much, although what they do have to say about politics points to the depth of their hope for strong, serious candidates—men in whose hands the lives of their boys will be as safe as anything can be in war. Above all they seem to want public servants who will drive to victory and get the boys back home.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.