Raymond Moley_ WHAT DO BRITISH THINK?
Since Prime Minister Churchill has repeatedly pointed out the lessened importance of his country in the grand alliance, and since informed people in Britain make no bones of their fear of American economic power, we may wonder what they think of the Wallace prediction that we should treble our foreign trade. Nobody here, except Wallace partisans, takes such talk seriously, but it may well shake the less informed and more literal British.
For British fear of our efficiency in production is genuine. And it has plenty of basis of fact concerning many aspects of British industrial life. Take, for example, the cotton textile business.
REPORT MADE
Last year, the British Ministry of Production sent a mission over here to investigate and report on our manufacturing methods and to advise on improvements there. The text of its report, now available here, is a model of frankness and thoroughness. The report says that in 38 years the cotton textile industry in the United States has quadrupled its pay rolls and also the value of its product, while increasing its labor force only 40 per cent and reducing the working week from 60 to 40 hours.
The mission submits its melancholy opinion that in Britain in the same period labor productivity has shown little change. "American management," says the mission, "has greater scope than British management in the utilization of labor because of the comparative absence of longstanding practices and conventions and because of the acceptance by labor of scientific methods in matters of work assignment." It also notes that "American mill managers, generally, are young and analytical and progressive in their outlook."
COMPARISONS GIVEN
Comparisons of production per man-hour in the cotton textile industry between the two countries consider each of the three processes involved — spinning, preparation and weaving.
In spinning, British production per man-hour is less than the American by averages of 27.4, 37.3 and 2.6 per cent in coarse, medium and fine spinning, respectively.
In warp preparation, British production per man-hour is less than American by 70 to 85 per cent in winding and by 78 to 88 per cent in beaming. Furthermore, the comparison shows that British labor requirements in these processes are more than five times the American in winding and seven times the American in beaming.
In weaving, British mill production per man-hour is less than the American by 57 per cent for coarse yarn cloth, by 67 per cent for medium and 36 per cent for fine. Labor force requirements for weaving in Britain run from 130 to 200 per cent greater than for American.
CONCLUSION REACHED
The mission pointed out in its conclusion that the men and women operating the machines in the two countries do not differ greatly in efficiency and industry. In fact, the personal skill of many of the British operatives is unsurpassed. The great difference between the countries is in management and machinery, inventive genius, skill in handling production problems, freedom and willingness to experiment with new methods all characterize the American industry. Adherence to outworn tradition in machines, in management and in labor relations has held Britain back in an industry in which it once led the world.
It is interesting to add that it is the very leaders who have made this possible who are the familiar targets of those, like Mr. Wallace, who claim to think in world terms. Our prophets are not without honor, it seems, except in our own country.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.