Raymond Moley.
To suggest that a proper respect for the late President Roosevelt's international ideals requires the re-election of Frank Hague as Mayor of Jersey City is to invite head-tapping and eyebrow-raising. But this nonsense is being used by C.I.O. leaders in explaining their support of Hague in the current so-called municipal campaign in Jersey City.
They make no effort to uphold the Hague methods. They know and admit that his rule is as clear an example of the abrogation of real democracy as can be imagined. They do not deny that Hague rule is a terrific burden to Jersey City taxpayers.
HE CAN DELIVER
But Hague can deliver a lot of votes in national and State elections for candidates whom the C.I.O. wants in State and national office. So these leaders pass over their responsibility as citizens for good city government and deliver their schools, hospitals, playgrounds, police and housing to the boss, because that boss, by some means, delivers votes to someone who will vote for union labor measures in Congress and execute those measures on the administrative side of government.
That is why Jersey City is headed for a smashing Hague victory in the municipal election of May 8.
REVOLT GOING ON
In the neighboring city of Newark, a revolt against bad and expensive government is going on at the same time. And in Newark, as in Jersey City, labor leaders are supporting bad government on the same ground as that alleged in Jersey City.
The outcome of the vote there is not predictable, but if reform loses, it will be due to the failure of labor to support reform.
These two cities illustrate a situation quite general in this country. Big cities are losing population, industry, wealth and intelligent leadership to smaller cities which offer better conditions for living. They are losing because, through the shortsighted policies of many union labor leaders and the still more shortsighted policies of local politicians, the independence, the local pride and the general welfare of local government are being sacrificed to national policies and interests.
VOTES FOR MONEY
Great blocs of Federal money have been handed to begging cities in the past 12 years. In return, great blocs of votes have been handed back in national elections. The net result has been a shameful deterioration in community life through bad local government. That a part, at least, of this decline is due to union labor politics is perfectly clear.
When Lincoln Steffens surveyed our cities 40 years ago, he put most of the blame for their decline upon big business. Now big union labor must bear its share of the responsibility.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.