Raymond Moley — A NEW DEAL FOR THE PRESS
The stillborn rumor of the man's procedure rested in the "Well, I was over here, as
end of German resistance will beginning on his quick sense of you can see, doing a little work,
long be a matter of professional the danger in such false informa- and the rumor got started.
talk among newspapermen, But tion. He didn't bother to find "I had a call from San Fran-
at this stage it is clear that out how it started. He seized the cisco and the State Department
it served a very useful purpose. main point. "Is it true?" he asked called me.
It brought to the surface quali- himself. And he moved immedi- "I just got in touch with Adm.
ties in President Harry S. Tru- ately to the point where the Leahy and had him call our
man that will give him a per- truth could finally be deter- headquarters—commander-in-
sonality of his own and move mined. chief in Europe—and there is no
him, to a degree, out of the DIRECT QUOTES foundation for the rumor.
role of a man merely carrying Then he called in the press. "That is all."
out the policies of his predeces- No hocus-pocus. No use of The President was then asked,
sor. "spokesmen" or secretaries. No "Are you going to stand by?"
The performance in Washing- comments on the way news is "I am going to finish this
ton Saturday night was a re- gathered. No sermon on the dan- work," he said.
freshing break from a Presiden- ger of rumors. No off-the-record SIMPLY ON THE JOB
tial tradition of many years. Mr. stuff. Just this for direct quota- Commenting on this the next
Truman's procedure was so sim- tion: day, Robert Humphreys, a vet-
ple that the public may take eran newspaperman, said:
it as a matter of course. People "Truman was simply on the
will say, "Truman did just what job. It was just like settling a
anybody would do. That's not rumor that friend Smith's wife
unusual." had been hurt. You just called
THE MAIN POINT up friend Smith and said Jones
But that's just the point. He had told you this and was it
did do what almost anybody true? No, it wasn't. Okay, better
would do. But Presidents get tell Jones and the rest of the
into the habit of not doing what Joneses; I'll let 'em know—'that
anybody would do. They develop is all.'!"
unwonted, sometimes odd and Let's hope that Mr. Truman
devious ways of doing things. will keep on. He looks like a
People forget that Presidents man who hasn't time to work
can do things as other people out a theory of how a President
do them. should act, but who just does
The excellence of Mr. Tru- things that he thinks ought to
be done when they ought to be
done.