Raymond Moley _ _ ECONOMIC CONVALESCENCE
The end of war is already revealing vast changes in the world's economy. With a return to peace, iron ores, aluminum, planes and ships have ceased to be the major items of export and import. It will take a year or more to reach even a measure of equilibrium. Meanwhile, there are hungry gaps claiming great quantities of food and other raw materials for immediate use. On the other hand, the United States will be getting many commodities which we have missed for a long time. Copra, cocoanuts and the like, which used to provide 20 per cent of our fats and oils, will come back rapidly. Whaling has been started again, and big hauls are promised, because about the only safety afforded by the seas in war was enjoyed by these monsters. Tea from China and cocoa from West Africa will come to us in larger and larger amounts. Wool growers in Australia and New Zealand are afraid of overproduction and are concerned lest the British government withdraw support prices. Cotton from Egypt and India will soon be on the market. An easing of the sugar shortage will come after some months, when supplies from the Philippines will be available. By next summer Europe will be filling her sugar needs from beet production. It is beginning to be apparent that in less than three months we shall have a glut of beef and other kinds of meat, except pork. What is even more important is the prospect of faster and more abundant ocean transportation. The world's merchant marine, despite war losses, will have 20 per cent more carrying capacity than ever before. Many more vessels will be Diesel powered, which means much faster speeds. To transport one ton twice as fast is to double the quantity of trade. Great efforts will be made to utilize our huge supplies of warplanes. Thrifty Sweden has already bought American bombers, which she is converting into comfortable passenger planes. In the long run this will not be an efficient carrier because of the fuel required, but in the time before peacetime planes are ready in quantity the Swedes will turn many thrifty kroner. Airlines here and abroad are promising greatly reduced passenger rates. The materials and the means of transportation are rapidly making their appearance. The prospects are bright for world commodities and transportation, and as soon as Europe is back at work, supply may outrun demand. But the great question will be how adequately the commodities and means of transportation will be used. Much of the world is in the Russian sphere of influence, which means, for the time being, less contact with the world. Japan and Germany are out for a long period. The fleets of the sea and the air are larger, but the areas they can traverse are smaller. The situation may not be unlike that which prevailed after the first World War. There were then large possibilities in transportation, quicker means of communication. But the promise of recovery was darkened by artificially made impediments in the way of their use. The economic tide is ready to flow. Political forces must clear the way. The time will soon be ripe for a world economic conference.