Raymond Moley _ _ GOOD REASONS AND BAD
The usual confusion exists are able. There will be more We have lost many more impor-
about the reasons for Washing- taxicabs in desperately congest- tant liberties since the shadow
ton's new midnight curfew. But ed cities in the daytime for more of war came over us. That was
from this angle the curfew looks important work than hauling something we should have real-
like fool conservation rather roisterers home. The public will ized back in 1937-38-39 when war
than fuel conservation. As far be reminded of the importance began to threaten in Europe and
as it tends to get essential work- of coal when John Lewis dons Asia. The loss of liberty at
ers to bed earlier with some of his annual war paint and threat- home was determined when
their money and part of their ens a strike on April 1. And opinion began to develop here
energy so that they can do their among the psychological reasons that this war which began
jobs next day, it is sound. For will be the setting of official dis- abroad was our war, too. And
the night owl cannot do his work approval on too much gayety at some of the night club patrons
behind the lines. home, while bloody fighting is in New York who are now weep-
WHY SO VAGUE? going on abroad. ing so loudly rent the night air,
If that be the real reason for MORE IMPORTANT LOSSES in those years, with their wordy
it, why has Washington been so This is hardly a time to cry belligerency.
vague about stating it? Because out about losing our liberty Our main concern should be
Washington is political, and the through a royal proclamation. the recapture of our liberty after
politician is never willing to give the war is over. We shall want
a real reason. He prefers to not a broken emblem of our lib-
give either a popular reason or erty, but all of it.
no reason at all. When Charles LASTING RESTRICTIONS?
F. Murphy, boss of Tammany, Two kinds of zealots will try
had to tell a man that he couldn't to turn war emergencies into
give him a job, he never gave a means to make restrictions per-
reason. Murphy believed that manent. The first are the pro-
when the disappointed man hibitionists, who are already ut-
thought up his own reason why tering loud hosannas over the
he was rejected it would help midnight curfew. This is an in-
his pride and temper his resent- direct step toward their objec-
ment. So War Mobilizer Byrnes, tive, they think.
who is a shrewd politician, offers The economic zealots are just
a blurry bunch of reasons and as determined to use the re-
permits the public to fill in the strictions of war as a pattern for
details. a totalitarian peace at home.
The detailed reasons offered Whether they are to prevail will
are numerous. There are wait- depend on the temper of Con-
ers, hat girls and others who toil gress and that, in turn, will de-
in the small hours and who can pend on the character of the
now.do productive work, if they Congress elected in 1946. It is
not too early to be preparing for
that election.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.