Raymond Moley — CONVICTING THE INNOCENT
A thrilling and true detective story could and probably will be written about the case of Bertram M. Campbell who, eight years after his conviction for forgery in New York City, has been found completely innocent. Gov. Thomas E. Dewey has issued a full pardon and has made a pledge that he will ask the Legislature to provide liberal compensation for the time Campbell spent in prison.
It was a case of mistaken identity. Another man, with a long criminal record, confessed the commission of the crime for which Campbell was convicted and for which he served 38 months in Sing Sing. Interest in the case is heightened by the fact that Thomas E. Dewey was the District Attorney whose office prosecuted the case, and Thomas E. Dewey is the Governor who officially issued the full pardon.
WHAT AMENDS?
How in such a case society can make proper amends for a shocking wrong is a matter for speculation which need not detain us here. The name of Bertram Campbell has been cleared for himself and his family. He will receive financial compensation. The suffering he must have endured no power on earth can erase.
But society, collectively, and every law-enforcement office, in particular, can take note of this case and do something to improve an obviously clumsy system of administering justice.
GENERAL LESSONS
The New York Criminal Courts Bar Association, through Robert Daru, is investigating the case and endeavoring to establish legal and administrative safeguards to prevent some of the many unfortunate circumstances which attended the conviction.
Some of the necessary safeguards will have special application to New York County and need not be mentioned here. But a number of other lessons have general application to every criminal court in the land.
TRAGEDY OF ERRORS
The record shows, in the first place, that Mr. Campbell’s defense was badly handled. Early in the trial his lawyer was taken sick and a friend, who was wholly unprepared, took over. The ordinary public defender system would not have corrected this defect, but an obligation certainly rests on the State to see that someone, whose business it is to see that accused persons are properly defended, is connected with the machinery of justice. It is my opinion that this is an obligation shared by both judge and prosecutor. The erroneous identification was a tragedy of errors. Once more, it is shown how imperfect are human memory and human powers of observation. Campbell and the real criminal resembled one another only slightly.
OVERANXIETY
Still more serious was the apparent overanxiety of the District Attorney’s office and the police to get this particular conviction. A series of forgeries had stained the fair name of New York, and apparently it was thought that somebody ought to suffer. Someone did, but—
The judge was highly regarded by the bar for honesty and legal knowledge. But, in this case, he appears to have been overzealous.
THE IDEAL
This case, once more, highlights the evil public practice of judging a District Attorney’s efficiency by his percentage of convictions. Such a measure of efficiency is false and not in the public interest. A District Attorney selects the cases which he prosecutes. Then he usually counts pleas to a lesser offense as convictions. These pleas are often secured by offering a small penalty, after indictment for a large crime. The District Attorney’s discretion in such cases should be rigidly regulated.
The ideal of Anglo-American justice is that the state is just as vitally concerned in seeing that the innocent go free as in seeing that the guilty go to prison.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.