Raymond Moley.
CO-ORDINATED DEFENSE
The Army-Navy debate makes
it more and more evident that
a simple merger of the War and
Navy departments would be superficial and a wholly inadequate way of getting co-ordination in the armed forces.
The Army case rests on a taken American concept that any merger—whether of government departments, businesses or schools—makes for efficiency and economy. In addition, it places too heavy a burden on the single civilian who would head Army, Navy and air. And it throws completely out of focus the significant place occupied by the Navy in our national life.
The new Navy “plan for national security,” on the other hand, makes provision for unifying the functions which should be merged and for keeping separate the identity of those matters which should be distinctly on their own.
Whatever the President may say or Congress may do, the Navy has won the argument.
The Navy plan provides, for the guidance of the President in security matters, two boards—one to co-ordinate research and intelligence for the armed services; the other, to co-ordinate production and procurement. It also provides for the co-ordination of foreign policy and military policy which was so lacking in the Pearl Harbor disaster. But it leaves Navy and Army in their present rank, as far as Cabinet representation is concerned.
It is hardly necessary to point out that, since the United States is by tradition and by present necessity a great sea power, it would be a strange thing to see our Navy represented in the civil government only by an Assistant Secretary. This would put the greatest Navy on earth on an administrative plane somewhat similar to that now occupied by the anti-trust division of the Justice Department or by a group of agencies such as the Weather Bureau, the Census Bureau and the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce.
The danger further exists that with the present top-heavy and temporarily powerful Army setup, the merger would, in substance, reduce the Navy to a position quite subordinate to the Army.
Before such a merger is hastily adopted, it is essential that our whole national policy and setup in matters of national defense be reconsidered. After that is done, there is time to determine the relative positions of the Army and Navy in the government.
In the last analysis, the President, in our constitutional system, is the great co-ordinator. He cannot delegate that responsibility, even to a hard-pressed “secretary of armed forces.” President Roosevelt achieved co-ordination fairly well, after we got into the war, through Adm. Leahy and the joint chiefs of staff. Some permanent provision for similar assistance to the President would achieve co-ordination at the top, which certainly could not be afforded by the mere elimination of a Cabinet officer.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.