Raymond Moley.
While Americans under present restrictions are enjoying only dreams of future vacations, the news has given us something to provide practical material for our imaginings. Some 300,000 G.I.'s are going to have the chance to tour Switzerland. The holiday will be seven days, and all for the small cost of $35. The men will start in groups of 300 daily. Later, the daily number will increase to 1000. All the points of interest will be visited. Swiss food rations will be provided and luxury hotels will be used for housing. No one who knows the Swiss will believe that this enterprise is anything but a profitable business enterprise. The idea of such mass production in travel and entertainment was developed 12 years ago by an ingenious Swiss named Gottlieb Duttweiler to stimulate the hotel industry during the world depression at that time. Duttweiler, incidentally, was earlier interested in developing the "rolling store" as a means of price reduction. His travel plan provided for arrangements with hotels, shipping companies, theaters and other amusement agencies by his "hopla" (hotel plan) to expand the use of their facilities beyond the usual two-month period when the hotels were used to capacity. The basic economic problem in the hotel business is the fact that, relatively, the same overhead costs must be supported in periods when room occupancy is at a minimum. When the load is distributed over the year, rates can be greatly reduced. When this plan was first initiated, five-day trips were arranged for as little as $17. The appeal in this early experiment was to the Swiss people themselves, the neighboring French and also more distant customers in Scandinavia and Holland. The principle differed from the German "strength-through-joy" activities in that the Swiss offered middle class, not proletarian, conditions and in that the entire enterprise was a thoroughly free enterprise. The idea of mass travel is, of course, not new in the United States, but the possibility of its development is unlimited. The hopes of those people in many States who are trying to solve the problem of employment when war industries shut down rest upon an expansion of the service trades. These people see an era ahead of shorter working periods, unusual reservoirs of savings, a steady decline in the labor necessary to operate agriculture and no big increase in total employment in heavy industry. The service trades still offer unlimited horizons. In any event, the Swiss in 1945 can provide ingenious Americans, who will be taking vacations at home or no vacations at all, with suggestions about better years ahead—years when trips can be very pleasantly unnecessary.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.