Raymond Moley.
Count Galeazzo Ciano's diary,
now published in American
newspapers, should provide for
those who read between the
lines some important lessons
about what sometimes happens
in high places. The former Italian
Foreign Minister was something
of a fool and richly merited his
early demise. But in setting
down the day-to-day account
of what happened in European
diplomacy, he provided materials
for a lesson which he himself
was unable to comprehend.
It is a lesson that measurably
applies to all high places in all
nations. Ciano shows how little
people in high place know of
what's going on in the world,
despite their bureaucrats, their
experts and their spies. Vast
decisions which mean life or
death for millions are made on
information which no shrewd
farmer would trust as a basis
for timing the selling of his
crop. Hunches, guesses, personal
likes and dislikes, prejudices
and rumors are too often the
blueprints of statesmen everywhere.
What saves them from exposure
are the panoply of office, the
air of secrecy, the poker faces
acquired in politics. No wonder
that people in high places hide
their facts under the phrase,
"In the public interest!" If the
public knew all the facts, it might
make decisions in its interest vastly
more wise than do its masters in
office. To anyone who has seen
the game of statesmanship from
the inside, as well as the outside,
the impression must remain that
there is little information on the
"inside" which is not available
on the outside. Usually, when great
decisions are ahead, the minds of
those who have responsibility for
making them are foggy and confused.
Ciano portrays Hitler, Ribbentrop
and Mussolini as entertaining
the most ridiculous views of the
intentions of the governments and
peoples of America, England and
Russia. He also reveals, incidentally,
what utter military weakness Mussolini
so long covered up with his ranting
and boasting. The Ciano record shows
that the political training of Hitler
and Mussolini induced them to talk
most when they knew least. When the
dictators met at the Brenner Pass in
1940, "Hitler did all the talking."
Mussolini wanted "to tell him many
things, but had to remain quiet most
of the time." And he was sore.
There was also cosmic bluffing.
Here was Mussolini, who was told by
his military people that he had hardly
one serviceable division and whose Fascist
regime was "wearing down," assuring
Hitler that he would not permit Germany
to be defeated. Then he told Ciano with
glee that Germany would not reach the
end of the war "any too strong."
This is something to remember
when the mask of censorship is drawn
in any country. There is no mystery in
statesmanship, except the marvel that
people should think there is.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.