Raymond Moley.
The union labor-management
government controversy is digging carefully into jurisdictional
disputes — an ever-increasing
cause of interrupted production
and a threat to the very existence of sound unionism.
The A.F.L. has always been
threatened with atomization by
these intraunion rows. Samuel
Gompers used to warn the international unions of this menace in most passionate terms.
Speaking in Chicago in 1922 of
serious trouble which had broken out in the building trades,
Gompers said, "The federation
is a rope of sand."
Jurisdictional differences are
characteristic of trade-union,
rather than industrial-union, organization. Hence, they are the
greater threat to the A.F.L. But
the C.I.O. has not been immune
from this evil, although its rapid
pace of organization in hitherto
unorganized industries has
spared it somewhat. But as its
growth has proceeded, it has
more and more frequently been
running into some of its own
older branches or into A.F.L.
unions.
Most jurisdictional quarrels
originate with the business
agents of local unions. One of
the most famous of jurisdictional
wars, lasting 20 years or more,
was the claim of the Teamsters
and Truck Drivers Union (formerly called the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters,
Chauffeurs, Stablemen and Helpers of North America) to the
Beer-Truck Drivers. The competition was the International
Union of United Brewery, Cereal
and Soft Drink Workers of
America. One reason for these
long names is to provide a
stronger basis for jurisdictional
claims.
Another long and bitter struggle was between the carpenters
and sheet-metal unions, both in
the A.F.L. The occasion for the
war was the provision in fire
codes for metal trims, instead of
wood. The carpenters found
themselves crowded out of much
of their work on skyscrapers
and hence they began striking
on what was left of their jobs,
such as the building of concrete
forms.
These disputes do not ordinarily mean much to the average
workman, except when the
members of a small union are
threatened with the black list.
But they have been hard on an
innocent and uncomprehending
public.