The Muddle
in Meat
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Whatever the outcome of Gen.
Von Rundstedt's drive in Europe, he has already won a qualified victory for Price Administrator Bowles over Food Administrator Jones. Since German resistance threw military expectations off balance, military estimates for meat have gone up, and meat rationing returns. Meat rationing was not a happy thing, from its beginning almost two years ago. By the fall of 1943 it was apparent that a vast population of hogs and cattle had accumulated on farms and ranches. Compared with 1939, our hog supply at this time a year ago was 70 per cent higher, and our cattle supply was up almost 40 per cent. The O.P.A. had imposed ceilings on retail and wholesale meat, but not on cattle. Then, in the spring of 1944, a great rush of animals reached the packing houses, and the government removed the rationing of most meats.
THE OUTLOOK
Now, as the third year of meat rationing begins, cattle herds are only slightly smaller than they were two years ago. Despite prospects of some reduction, they promise to be excessive for peace demands. Hence, slaughterings are scheduled to be 3 per cent higher than last year.
Hog production, however, has been reduced considerably because of price policy. When, in late 1943, it looked as if a tight feed situation might arise, the farmers decided to breed fewer hogs. At the same time it was announced that support prices for hogs would be substantially reduced, and farmers decided to sell corn and again cut the birth rate of hogs.
In the spring of 1944, their distrust of the administration was further increased by a curious government procedure which distinguished between "good" and "bad" hogs. "Bad" hogs were those bigger than 240 pounds or smaller than 170 pounds. Middleweights were "good" hogs. Support prices were paid only for "good" hogs. The farmer who had no prophetic vision as to the prospective size of the unborn decided not to raise so many hogs.
CONCERN FELT
Had the war ended, as expected, by the end of 1944, this would have been a blessing, for not only would war demands have been less, but domestic consumption might have declined. (High incomes among workers have boosted per capita consumption of meat from 126 pounds per capita to something over 140 pounds.) But the war has not ended as expected, and the armed forces have ordered more meat. The government has promised that it will not only pay higher support prices, but will no longer distinguish between "good" and "bad" hogs.
With this combination of maximum prices, unborn hogs and increased demand for beef, the butchers and packers are caught in a price pincers movement. Hence, loud outcries and a butchers' holiday in New York City.
Rationing is here again, as Mr. Bowles predicted. But whether the meat will appear on time is quite a different question. The prospects for feed are good, however, and nature in its course will probably leave us, when peace comes, with more animals than are needed on the farm. This prospect gives the Food Administration no little concern.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.