Raymond Moley-
Gen. Eisenhower, as American
member of the Allied Commission on Occupied Germany, will
have among his problems the
situation created by a Russian-
American contact along a line
of considerable length in East-
Central Germany. This new
frontier of ours creates a situation
without an exact parallel
in American history. To handle
it will require tact, diplomacy
and administrative ability of a
high order, for it is full of unpleasant possibilities.
some of us remember the rumor occasioned when it was asserted and subsequently denied
that Mr. Roosevelt had said to
some Senators that our frontier
was on the Rhine.
FAR AWAY NOW
Well, our frontier is to be, for
a longish period, along a line
considerably east of that—a line
with none of the advantages afforded by the presence of a great
river. That frontier will be in
a foreign country in which there
still remains plenty of will and
capacity for making mischief.
Along that frontier we face
an occupying nation with which
our relations are bound to be
complicated by differences in
language, customs and economic
practices. Frontiers have always
been explosive places. Nowhere
do the forces of patriotism burn
so brightly. Nowhere are little
incidents so likely to be blown
up into international events.
MAJOR REASON
Evidence that the Army is already aware of the dangers inherent in this situation can be
found in the prohibitions which
have been imposed on reports
from Europe which might create
friction among our allies or, to
be precise, between us and our
former military ally, now our
friend.
One of the major reasons for
Army anxiety on this score is
the danger involved when Germans cross the line from the
Russian zone to the American
zone and tell our people unpleasant things about their experiences in the Russian zone. Even
if the Germans had not been
at war with the Russians, they
would tell tall stories. But now
they hate Russians with a special bitterness and they want
more than anything else to create discord and suspicion between America and Russia.
LESS UNDERSTANDING
What with public opinion being continually excited in this
country by heedless anti-Russian
talk, incidents of difficulties at
-OUR NEW FRONTIER
the frontier will provide oil for
the fire. Gossip in an inactive
army travels fast, and letters
written home will feed discontent. We all remember the friction in the first World War
among American and British and
French soldiers. This one may
bring still worse, because we understand Russians less than
Frenchmen or Britons.
If the frontier is closed to Americans, more difficulties arise
because Germans will then say
that, with their country divided
into tight compartments, they
can't get along economically. A
persistent but nonviolent intra-
German sabotage will go on, intended to prevent economic recovery as long as the occupation
lasts. Germany will be indoctrinated further with the old contention that it must have more
room to live.
NO EASY SOLUTION
But if, to prevent this crossing of infections, Russia severely
clamps downs on all contacts,
her critics will blame her for
her suspicious actions. If we do
so, the Army will be accused
of highhanded actions.
It is going to take much patience and fortitude to withstand this cumulation of misunderstandings. There is no easy
mechanical solution.