Raymond Moley.
A tidal, wave of political palav.
er has come from advocates of
the $25 unemployment pay. Congressional debate will no doubt
add to the confusion, but the ultimate Congressional decision may
clarify the matter in part. A
little clarification may be in order now.
Let's get straight the fact that
this payment is not to set up a
new industrial order, nor is it to
set up new rights for anyone.
The payment is an emergency
measure. Its purpose is to soften
the hardships encountered by
workers who went into war
work. Many of those workers
moved from their homes to new
places of employment. Many
have families. Many were poor
and in debt when the war started.
ed. Forget the high pay received
in war work and what they did
with it. The point now is what
should be done to help them in
an emergency.
BETTER GO HOME!
It would seem that the best
thing for most of them to do is
to go back to their former States
and communities. If any of them
are to be a burden on any State,
it ought to be on that State
where they lived before the war.
Under the American system of
government each State has a primary responsibility for the social
problems in its borders. If it
cannot solve those problems, it
ought to ask the Federal government to help.
Surely the responsibility is not
transferred to the State where
war needs called them to work.
When a State like California
proved to be the best place to
make ships or airplanes in a national emergency, it did not then
deserve to be saddled with the
problems of poverty and incompetence and misfortune which
had their basic origin in many
other States.
PROPOSAL MADE
Hence, the problem is to use
all the power of the Federal government to achieve a redistribution
of the abnormal populations
occasioned by war. In short, to
get people back to the States in
which they lived in 1940. How
can this best be done?
It certainly cannot be done by
a system which psychologically
or financially induces people to
stay where they are. A regular
stipend, paid weekly at an office
where these people are now, is
an excellent way to get them to
stay. Moving, in such a system,
means that they must take the
trouble to find the new place of
payment and all the conditions
involved in qualifying for payment there.
_ THE ROAD BACK
ment taxes. This money might
well be given back to them if
they move. But that is a detail.
A further fact is that living
costs may be lower in their native State. They would be benefited, in that respect, by remigration.
All in all, it would seem that
a flat sum-a sort of severance
payment-paid by the Federal
government to those workers
who have moved from one State
to another for war work would
be most fair all round. It would
also induce more redistribution
of the population, which is needed. That sum should be less than
$650. It might even be graduated
in accordance with the distances
those workers traveled to get a
war job.
FOR THE ADVENTUROUS
Essentially, whatever plan the
Federal government adopts
should be a fair effort to restore
things as they were before the
war emergency. Under such a
plan, distress would be eliminated among the improvident or
unfortunate.
Also, the provident people who
saved some of their unusual income would be restored to their
former habitat vastly better off
than they were before. And the
more adventurous, who want to
take their chances in their new
home, could start their adventure with vastly more than those
of our forefathers who attempted similar adventures.
There are certain equities
which non-native workers can
expect from the State where they
have worked two or three years.
In most cases, they have paid
State taxes, including unemployment.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.