Raymond Moley_
It will not be many weeks before there will be violent screams from the left wing. The many radical varieties who attached themselves to the Roosevelt cause will begin to feel the chill of homelessness. Of course, they never felt any affinity for the Democratic party. But they felt that through the medium of Mr. Roosevelt they could make it an instrument for their purposes. They did fairly well for 12 years. But their revels now are ended.
party is a durable thing. It is not wholly indestructible, but it can outlive any of its parts. Great as was Mr. Roosevelt's influence, he never changed the fundamentals of his party.
NEVER CHANGED
It was rooted in geography, and no human being can alter that. He taught it new songs, but he could not change its voice. He gave it bounteous food, but he never extinguished its appetite. He made it live in strange partnerships, but he never married its mind to the newcomers. He made the party take Henry Wallace in 1940, but because of his own failing energy in 1944 he couldn't make it take Wallace again.
And now, even if President Truman were a New Dealer—which he is not—even if he were Henry Wallace, he could not stay the restoration of party regularity.
TRUMAN A 'REGULAR'
It was the certainty that the Democratic party could win elections with Mr. Roosevelt on the ticket that kept things as they were. Moreover, the regular Democrats were regular and they supported the head of the party, regardless of policies or official personnel. Now restraint is removed; and the old party with vast patronage is in office for nearly four years to come. It can afford to lose the late-comers, the nonregulars who joined only for Mr. Roosevelt and who will leave now that he is gone.
Mr. Truman, as has been said again and again, is a regular party man. He comes from a section of Jackson County, Missouri, that is southern in sympathy.
THE REASON
He was nominated at Chicago because only by putting him forward could northern city leaders like Hannegan, Flynn and Kelley get the numerous
THE RESTORATION
southern candidates for Vice-President to withdraw and join the procession. Mr. Truman's favorites among Senators have been men like Bailey, Barkley and George. He greatly admires ex-Vice-President Garner and he has little sympathy for New Deal Senators like Guffey and Pepper. For James F. Byrnes he has the greatest admiration.
All this indicates why there will shortly be unhappiness on the left. We shall soon hear revived the phrase "old guard" as a name which discontented people will apply to the restored order of things.
EVEN IN LOCAL POLITICS
The reverberations will be felt in local politics, as well. Already it is clear that Mayor LaGuardia of New York will have very tough going if he runs again. Only the support of the late President pulled him through last time. This time he will have to face a united Democratic party. And the city Republicans are reluctant to take him back.
We have returned to party government all along the line. Those who can will adjust themselves to this. Others will once more take the road of lonely minority opposition.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.