The Senate this week is beginning a full-dress debate on a treaty between the United States and Mexico dealing with the use by the two nations of the water of the Colorado River and the Rio Grande.
Senators are taking this matter very seriously, since no less than 35 of them have signified their intention of speaking on the subject. Their concern is well-founded, for the use of the water of such a river as the Colorado is a matter of life or death to large areas in the several States of the Colorado Basin.
Much of the subject matter of the debate will be technical and of little interest to the public. In fact, some points involve engineering estimates on which opinion is so varied that clear conclusions can hardly be drawn.
REVISIONS NEEDED
There are two or three issues, however, which clearly call for revisions of the proposed treaty. In 1922, a Colorado River commission, of which Herbert Hoover was chairman, brought about an agreement among the States concerned with the river. That agreement is called the Colorado River compact. Under that compact, allocations of water were made as between the upper basin and the lower basin of the river and among various projects then in existence or in contemplation. Those allocations were made, however, before stream-flow records had been kept over a period of time long enough to make final decisions possible.
THE MAIN TROUBLE
When the compact was made, it was recognized that a treaty with Mexico, through which about 100 miles of the river flows, would someday have to be negotiated. But the Mexican angle was not urgent then, because that republic was using only a relatively small amount of water. The chief worry of Mexico, in fact, was the danger and destruction occasioned by too much water at certain seasons of the year. There were periodic floods down there, which clogged up her irrigation ditches and canals with silt and otherwise endangered the lands she was cultivating.
The building of great projects along the Colorado in the United States has so controlled the flow in Mexico that considerable areas there can now be developed, and the proposed treaty allows an increase of water for that purpose beyond that used in 1922.
PRORATING?
A good deal of debate will center in the question of whether existing or tentative projects in the United States should be safeguarded by some prorating of the water so that Mexico will share with the United States in the hazards of possible shortage. The engineering problems involved in estimates of future quantities of water are so complicated that a layman at this distance is not entitled to an opinion.
Mr. Hoover, who probably knows more of this whole question than anyone in the Senate, has addressed a solemn warning concerning the purely governmental aspects of the treaty which deserve careful attention.
TOO MUCH POWER
In a letter to Sen. A. W. Hawkes, he points out that the administration, in negotiating the treaty, has followed the New Deal tradition in delegating dangerous power to the American member of the commission which will operate under the treaty. That commission will have two members—one Mexican and one American. The American member could obligate Congress to vast expenditures, alter water rights of vital importance to American States and in other ways involve this country in critical and lengthy controversies.
The Senate should certainly, as Mr. Hoover suggests, retain, by reservation, the power of Congress over the American commissioner provided for in the treaty.