Almost lost in this week's tremendous news from Washington is an item saying that Alvin H. Hansen is no longer serving as special consultant to the Federal Reserve Board. This will be important and welcome news to every American who believes in conservative fiscal policies in the serious days ahead. Dr. Hansen has for a long time been the high priest of that group in official Washington which holds that national planning, through deficit spending, is essential to our economy. His status as a Harvard professor, his crudite books, articles and speeches and, during the past two years, his connection with the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System give him an incredible ascendancy in the spending school. Dr. Hansen's departure from the Federal Reserve was marked by no particular controversy. But his views of what should be done in Federal finance are not the views of the Federal Reserve Board. Nor are they, apparently, the views of President Truman. It is fortunate, therefore, that Dr. Hansen's official connection has been terminated before the inevitable battle in Congress over the Murray (full-employment) bill begins. For that bill, as now written, would practically write into law the whole Hansen thesis. While Secretary Vinson and President Truman have subscribed in principle to the Murray bill, they certainly are not behaving like people who believe that we can safely maintain full employment in a peacetime economy through government spending. The sober view of the more responsible members of the Truman administration is that private business must be given every chance to meet the situation in the months ahead. And that, it would seem, is the only possible conclusion warranted by the reconversion facts. The government is canceling war contracts at a rate which will total, in two months, over $25,000,000,000 and, by the end of the year, probably $10,000,000,000 more. Any talk of absorbing the resulting unemployment by deficit spending is fantastic. The very management of a postwar budget of $25,000,000,000 to $30,000,000,000 will require every tax resource which can be found. And mounting deficits will not only make the need for taxes greater, but will dry up some of the resources we already have. A further hard fact people in public office hate to face is that the unemployment, in the next six to nine months, which will result from the cancellation of war contracts will have the wholesome effect of forcing a redistribution of the population now crowded into war production centers. No means, other than necessity, can accomplish that. Those who deplore this temporary unemployment are letting their immediate concern for the unemployed get in the way of what should be a genuine concern for the long-time welfare of the people who are losing jobs now. It may well be that if a serious deflation persists into the next three or four years we will hear from the Hansen school again. But just now it is in eclipse and the departure of Dr. Hansen is valid evidence of that fact.