Raymond Moley.
The Wagner-Murray "full employment" bill represents the heart's desire of those Senators and members of the administration who would still regard themselves as New Dealers. It is also an expression of a part, at least, of Secretary Wallace's ideas for postwar prosperity and of those leaders of union labor who are most friendly to the Secretary of Commerce. It may be well to take another look at what seems to be the fundamental hope in the plan as a means of providing jobs in numbers unheard of in times of peace. That fundamental hope is for jobs in home and plant construction. But anyone familiar with similar hopes entertained in the early days of the Roosevelt administration will remember well that new building by private capital always met its chief obstacle in the reactionary policies of the very union labor organizations of which Messrs. Wagner, Murray and Wallace profess to be the greatest friends. Some of us who still entertained the hope that President Roosevelt, 10 years ago, might lick the depression by encouraging private housing remember that the administration and the New Deal Senators were never willing to make the demands on union labor that extensive housing required. What was needed was the creation of really large privately owned building corporations. Mass purchasing power could create mass production of the many materials necessary to the modern house. The same trend was necessary in providing cheap houses, in short, which had proved successful in building cheap automobiles and other articles in mass production. But the building trades remained small, scattered and independent, with the A.F.L. little more than a loose, national holding company. And yet, the exponents of "full employment," with their eyes fixed on the shining glory-shore, fail to see that the same rocks and shoals which prevented a safe landing 10 years ago are there now.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.