Raymond Moley —LAGUARDIA REBELLION
Let there be uttered a tiny squeak of optimism in the midst of the curfew turmoil. Mayor LaGuardia has at least rattled the bones of local self-government in the United States. There is little else in the situation creditable to anyone concerned. And at this stage, only the wee Mayor stands to gather any prestige from it all.
No fair-minded person is going to be impressed by outeries that Mr. LaGuardia has started another whisky rebellion or a secession from the Union. On the other hand, few will join with those who shriek that the Byrnes curfew is the end of liberty in America.
DIFFERENT ROUTINE
New York is very much part of the United States and if it should sink into the sea, another city of the same kind would appear elsewhere. It is a place to which great numbers of people come for business and pleasure. Three to four hundred thousand transients visit New York every 24 hours. The legitimate theaters and other amusements such as night clubs are a part not only of the pleasure but of the business of those visitors. Only a small proportion of the support of these places of amusement comes from people who live in the city.
A 12 o'clock curfew was clearly an act of discrimination against New York. Its life, including its theater hours and habits of eating and going home, is unlike that of other parts of the country. As one resident of the city, I wish to add, however, that it would be a far more restful place to live in if it were not so unusual in its routine.
RUINING HOLIDAYS
But visitors from out of town will not let us keep better hours. Their time in New York is limited, and they want to make the most use possible of their hours. Most prominent among those visitors who find New York a source of more or less innocent merriment are thousands of soldiers and sailors. Some are back from the shock of battle, others are on their way to the front. The midnight curfew created suffocating congestion on the streets and in all means of transportation. That and other incidental factors were enough to ruin the short holiday of these all-deserving men.
Burke's statement that the first principle of government is obedience is a good clue to the reason for all the trouble. People obey the law not because it is law, but because they understand and generally approve the purpose of the law. In this case, Mr. Byrnes imposed a decree in the form of a request. He did it without making clear the reason or reasons why people should obey it.
This deliberate indirection made it impossible to get public support for compliance. All the alleged reasons concocted by minor officials failed to provide a reason for obedience. And yet, the whole thing depended upon voluntary obedience.
SOLDIERS ORDERED OUT
If, as some people were fair enough to assume, the real reason was to get warworkers to bed and thus get them to their jobs next morning, the latest phase of the comedy denies that. The Army on last Tuesday night suddenly ordered all soldiers out of the pubs. Soldiers with no battle to fight the next morning were sent to bed, while civilian workers were permitted to stay. As a morale destroyer, this is supreme.
"They gave a drunk civilian a room but 'adn't none for me," a beribboned veteran said, as he was ordered out of a restaurant: "Three years I wait and then this. Three blank blank years." Fill in the blanks yourself.
Just who is trying to save whom from what and why?