Is Dewey Playing Possum?
As the year ends, the attitude,
as well as the political chances,
of Thomas E. Dewey is an enigma loosely wrapped in a mystery.
He is the leading candidate as far as most polls and prospective delegates are concerned. But a fair judgment of present prospects must lead to the conclusion that his chance of getting the nomination is not quite so good as it was before he took his western trip last summer. Most political kibitzers will tell you that he has slipped.
However, most political kibitzers fail to realize a possibility which may lie at the heart of the mystery. Suppose Dewey has planned to slip behind Taft at this stage of the contest. There is no confidential information to support this idea. It is carefully considered conjecture, the reasons for which are set down here for what they may be worth.
Dewey is a systematic thinker. His experience as a prosecutor has taught him to consider each item in the history of a case in a neat pattern and to draw his conclusions and base his strategy on that pattern. Let us see what his history has to say.
He became a national figure and a potential Presidential candidate 10 years ago when he was elected District Attorney of New York County. Thus he has been before the American public longer than any of the other possible nominees except, perhaps, Vandenberg. He has spoken on every conceivable subject in all parts of the country.
There is a real danger that country-wide tours and many speeches outside the State would produce a negative reaction now. He is already well known, as all the polls show, and he enjoys the prestige which goes with a former candidacy. And the fact that he has been regarded as the leading candidate carries with it a sort of inevitability. Politicians in the various States fear this, even when they are inclined to support someone else.
Thus, without effort, Dewey can move along toward the convention without fear of losing a position as one of the two leading candidates.
Meanwhile, he is adding year after year of what is admitted to be fine and efficient administration in the most populous State.
In 1940, Dewey went to the convention with the most delegates. He was the figure everyone else had to beat. He had no reserve strength, and his delegates fell away after the balloting began. In the four years after that he came from behind to win easily in 1944. Thus, he lost when he conducted an active hunt for delegates and won when he played possum. That lesson is not lost on a shrewd intelligence like Dewey's.
The situation now makes it dangerous for him to invade the big States where the decisive delegations live. There are many favorite sons, and they would resent invasions. Most of them have no chance for the nomination, and Dewey presents an attractive alternate. It means a lot to an ambitious politician to be in the lead of a stampede to a winning candidate.
Those in the inner Roosevelt circle in 1932 well remember the worry occasioned by Roosevelt's lead in the months before the convention. That was when the phrase, "Stop Roosevelt," was coined. Farley, Flynn and Howe deliberately slowed up the hunt at one stage. Roosevelt barely escaped defeat after the balloting had proceeded a while.
Hence, Dewey could lose little by biding his time, by letting others risk the mistakes of speechmaking and by letting someone else, perhaps Taft, take the lead a while.
Dewey's friends and workers are not oblivious to all these factors and they are not indifferent to what is going on. If the Dewey band wagon seems to be going slowly, it is maybe calculated caution, not indifference.
Proud and Bold
Boston Herald
There is quite a difference between smug Americanism and the pride that comes from awareness of one's national strength and responsibilities. Patriotism in the abstract—"my country right or wrong"—may have its uses, but it doesn't compare with that good citizenship which sees "one's country for what it is in terms of the whole wide world. It is this difference, it seems to us, which Eliot Wadsworth so wisely called to the attention of the graduating class at Northeastern University.
"We hope that you may be patient, wise and, above all, bold—very bold—in using this strength that you inherit from the events of the past 50 years," he said.
And, when much of the thinking of America's greatness has been in materialistic terms; Mr. Wadsworth took time out to tell Northeastern's embryonic citizens that the really great and indispensable thing which their elders have left them is the American heritage of freedom.
"Whatever else my generation may have done, there is still freedom in America which you inherit and must take care of."
.BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.