Our Aid Should Not Go to Governments
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
If, by any chance, the practical advice of a man like B. M. Baruch should be enlisted in setting up the E.R.P., he would point to a vital omission in the President's plan. The billions involved are directed at three distinct problems, and in each case the probability of return is different.
There will be grants of food, fuel and raw materials for Germany, Austria and possibly some other countries. These will never be repaid. They should be outright gifts. In a second classification of aid is that which goes to countries like Greece and Turkey, whose capacity or willingness to make any return is negligible.
But grants for long-term reconstruction of productive facilities in countries like France and Italy can, if properly administered, be classed as fairly good investments in material economic terms.
In fact, the whole test of the lasting value of the program will rest on what happens in these investments. And any practical American businessman will see at once that the recipients of such grants should not be politicians, but the businessmen and concerns which in the past have built productive plants and facilities which have served the economic needs of these countries.
An excellent example of such an investment is a plan suggested in Europe to utilize the water power generated in the Alps through a plant built mutually by France, Italy and some of the Swiss cantons. Such an enterprise would nourish vast industrial activities in three nations. It involves competent engineering and a large outlay of capital.
It should not be affected by political changes in the governments of the participating countries. There are in private life in these countries businessmen, engineers and companies that could do this job. A grant for such a purpose should be made to some form of international private business organization, and that organization should sign the evidence of obligation. The governments involved might be coguarantors, but the primary obligation should be the active agent.
For another example, in sending new textile machinery to Western and Central Europe, the representative firms in each country should subscribe the loan and plan its repayment in due course. A dozen other examples could be given.
The administration of such lending at the American end should not be the same as in giving food or fuel to the needy or in lending to political governments. In the nature of things, the administration should not rest with a subordinate of the State Department or a roving ambassador or a bureau in Washington staffed by the eager ex-employees of the O.P.A. or U.N.R.R.A. The repeated selection by the President of Edwin W. Pauley for big economic assignments abroad should give us pause.
If, as the President says, private lending from America should ultimately supplement the overloaded Federal budget, the conditions under which long-term investments are made should be attractive to Americans.
They cannot be attractive under the President's present plan. Anyone can give money away. Big investments upon which the future productivity of Europe depends should not be administered by a reincarnation of Harry Hopkins or Fiorello LaGuardia, but by a proved success in private enterprise in the United States.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.