Special Session Results in Political Draw
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It was clear to everyone, when
President Truman called the special
session of Congress in November,
that everything which happened
would be deeply colored by politics.
The two parties are aiming at the
richest political prize in the world.
The Presidency in the next four
years will have immense prestige
and lush political patronage. Leaders
on both sides in Washington would
be less than human if this objective
did not loom in all their deliberations.
The verdict of this reporter on the
political aspects of the special
session is a drawn battle—no special
advantage for either side. This
judgment is based on how voters
next year may react to arguments
from each side about what was or
was not done. Partisans on one side
or the other may not believe they
have hot and convincing arguments.
But it is a long way to next November,
and much will happen to sap the
force of 1947 events. President
Truman's strategy was to present a
series of anti-inflation recommendations
so long and drastic that the Republicans
could not possibly adopt them. In
countering this thrust, the Republicans
presented a partial program, including
several of the Truman points. This
compelled most Democrats to support
it and thus to put a bipartisan color
on the result. If inflation gets worse,
there will be recriminations, with
some advantage to the Democrats. If
price relief comes, Republicans can
claim that they saved us from a police
state and so forth. Unless a lot of
Republican Congressmen are caught
with speculative grain in their pockets,
the issue of speculation is good
Republican propaganda. The Pauley
affair once more revealed the President
as a partisan who is overly anxious to
put political figures in vital offices
and who, in this case, was not
particularly sensitive to the public
interests involved. If other high
officials in the administration are
caught in speculation, the result will
be disastrous to Democratic chances.
No issue was created on European
relief. The reduction was not enough
to reflect Republican isolationism. The
issue of tax reduction has been
capitalized by Republicans in the
Knutson bill. The bill is overly
generous to taxpayers, and the
President will have to oppose it. But
the initiative was Republican, and the
Republicans can plausibly claim credit.
They can also say that the immense
surplus which now appears is far
beyond the Truman estimates and
that the President made a bad move in
vetoing their tax bill at the regular
session.
Beyond the general party aspects of
the special session, two Republican
candidates, Taft and Stassen, gained
during the session and a dangerous
threat, Eisenhower, slipped badly.
Stassen called the turn on the Pauley
affair and showed that a man with no
public office can, if he has the right
information, project himself forcibly
into public affairs. Taft did well as a
leader of his party in his insistence
upon positive anti-inflation action. The
fact that so many Democrats were
compelled to vote for his stopgap
program showed the strength and
astuteness of the Taft tactics.
Meanwhile, wholly beyond the orbit
of Congress, Gen. Eisenhower lost
ground in a coffee-cup skirmish at a
private dinner. Reams of precious
newsprint and valuable radio time have
been used to tell what Eisenhower
said or did not say about taxing
profits. The net of it all is that the
man who swept the Nazis before him
lost a battle over a dinner table. He
said something which has been variously
interpreted and he should have said
nothing. He simply provoked the
inevitable argument against his candidacy,
which is his lack of familiarity with
the complex issues involved in taxation
and finance. He has raised doubts,
which may grow and grow, about a
general in the White House,