The English pub, long a substantial social institution in the life of the island and a veritable pillar of free enterprise, is now threatened by the Labor government's tide of nationalization. The licensing bill, now before Parliament, proposes a species of state management of premises licensed for the sale of beer and spirits. There are loud outcries from owners and patrons. But there is unlimited, not to say, smug, satisfaction on the part of temperance forces. It would seem that the startling rise of Socialism in nationalizing the fields of mining, banking and medicine and the impending socialization of lawyers and steel have provided all the intoxication that labor feels Britons need. At any rate, reform, never distinguished by a sense of humor, feels that regimentation must set no limits on its invasion of the poor man's life. IT HAS BEEN TRIED It seems that state management of pubs has been experimentally tried in some British communities, and there are mixed reports on its effect. At Carlyle the experiment was tried during the war as a means of reducing drunkenness among munitions workers. The pending proposal is now limited to "new" towns, but it is clear that it is only a wedge toward fairly general public management. Efficiency and sobriety might be gained by such a measure, but diversity and that unpremeditated and unplanned conviviality and color which distinguish Britain's version of our saloon will certainly be lost. Imagine a Dickens or a Hogarth attempting to apply his talents to public houses built in the deadly image of a blueprint drawn in Whitehall! When one pub is like all others, what incentive remains to make a night of it? A visitor from abroad searching for the variety that is England can see it all at one sitting. POLITICAL OPPORTUNITY But imagine the inducement to a political government to enlist all bar men and maids in the service of the state. No staff of political workers could ever have such intimate and continuous access to voters. And conceive of the power of government agents in the art of persuasion at moments when voters are most impressionable and agreeable! Tammany, a government within a government, has always been aware of this. Its ancient citadels were always in the public bars. And in most machine cities the rise of bosses was almost invariably through early experience in the saloon business. But there was no humorless Socialist government holding the whip over these petty overlords. There was democracy in the American machine. The saloon controlled government; government did not own the saloon. Perhaps this new Labor Party will gain ground in Washington. It would, however, be difficult to arouse for it the enthusiasm of certain stalwarts of democracy such as Hague, Kelley and Pendergast. With their help we may be assured that private enterprise will make its last stand before the bar.