AT THE GOVERNORS' CONFERENCE — By Raymond Moley
In this tense political atmosphere at the national Governors' Conference at Portsmouth, N.H., one concern seems to grip most Republican politicians. They want to get in line next week, in the balloting in Philadelphia, behind the probable winner. In the great game of politics a man left on base when the game is won is a lost soul.
The Governor of one great State, whose preference is still unknown, said, "We mustn't miss the boat this year." Another Governor, who holds his delegation in a firm grip, said, "We are going to be ready to move fast when the balloting starts."
Tenseness is in the air now and it will deepen on Sunday and Monday in Philadelphia. In States with favorite sons questions are being asked by delegates about how long they must go along with their first pledges. In Massachusetts, for example, it is not at all certain that the delegation can be held together even for a first ballot vote for Saltonstall. Former Gov. Fuller of that State said that no consideration for Saltonstall or for Joe Martin, Massachusetts' almost favorite son, should cause delegates to risk a long series of ballots and a possible smoke-filled room. Delegates, he said, are chosen to nominate a President, and they should proceed to that job as soon as the balloting starts.
There are some 40 Governors at the conference, most of them Republicans. The hotel where the conference is held is remote from crowds and other diversions. About all who are present, aside from Governors and their immediate attendants, are a number of experienced reporters. It is a good place to size up sentiment.
It is, I believe, fair to state that most of the reporters feel there will be no deadlock next week, that the nomination may come sooner than has been anticipated and that Dewey has decidedly the best chance. Vandenberg is not overlooked, but his stock is declining. Taft is favored by some. In a poll of Republican Governors, Dewey received as many votes as all other candidates combined.
A lot more will be known Sunday in Philadelphia, when several big States, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, will caucus. The southern Democratic Governors are having a bit of a show, too. Leadership seems to be turning to the able Gov. Beauford H. Jester of Texas. He plans to have a meeting of southern Governors before the Democratic convention in July to consider the case of the South versus one Harry S. Truman. For the first time since the President started things with what opponents call his "civil wrongs program," an orderly and positive revolt is under way. Jester says that Texas will be regular up to the "November disaster." After that it will help rebuild the house along lines, we may be sure, which will not conform to the architectural theories of the New Deal.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.