Western Berlin's Industry
Gives Us Bargaining Power
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
in the course of our stumbling through the Berlin crisis, a great deal has been said about saving or losing face. To many people, the whole situation epitomizes all the Russian, German, European war and peace problems. But little has been said about what Berlin is materially worth to us, to the Russians and to the Germans.
The problem comes down to basic economics.
As a center of production, Berlin before and perhaps during the war produced 9% of all German production. But in certain lines the figures were much higher. When these figures are examined it becomes very clear why Berlin's industry is so essential to the maintenance of the Russian position in Eastern Berlin and, in fact, in all of Eastern Germany. Berlin produced 48% of all German electrical power, 12% of all machinery, 20% of printing and paper, 35% of garments, 19% of fine mechanical and optical material and 10% of all rubber.
The greater part of this production was in the zones now held by the western powers. In the sectors of the western Allies are located some of the most famous German industries, such as Siemens and Halske, Telefunken and others.
To the Russians, production from the Allied sectors of Berlin, as well as from the Allied-held areas of Germany, is sorely needed. Like pack rats they took much from their own area of occupation—dismantled factories which, ironically enough, might have contributed to a better bargaining position now. They have subsequently been attempting to rebuild plants and to run them along the lines of their Soviet "trusts." In this they have not realized great success. They now find the production of areas controlled by the western Allies essential to the maintenance of their own area.
Talk of the possibility of Soviet Russia's allowing the "poor Berliners" to starve does not jibe with hardheaded reason. Surely the Bolsheviks are aware of the fact that in order to get materials from the Allied zone, food for workers and coal for factories must be supplied. In their own country they have had ample opportunity to observe this rule at work. They simply could not permit Western Berlin to starve.
On the other hand, the western Allies have a stake in bringing exports from Berlin into reasonable relation with imports to Berlin, although the generals may not realize this. From an economic point of view we must decide whether the admirable, if expansive, air lift performs this function.
Further, we must recognize the full potency of our bargaining position. And when the U.N. discussions end in a deadlock as they have in the past, there is no reason to assume that Soviet Russia and the west will have exhausted possibilities for a Berlin settlement. As long as the economic ABCs of Berlin exist, there will be a strong incentive for agreement on both sides. It is not unlikely that the utilization of the industries in Berlin will play a major part in the final solution of the Berlin crisis.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.