Living by Giving.
As the Marshall plan is adopted in one form or another, serious people are wondering about the long-term effect of living by giving. It is seriously contended that continuing free foreign exports are essential to our economy and must go on forever. Those who say this are the same people who favored the Roosevelt pump-priming policies a few years ago, And the basic reasons they give are the same now.
The theory of these pump-priming economists is that a capitalist, industrial country must export goods and that it is immaterial whether these exports are gifts, loans or legitimate sales. They point out that most of our exports since 1920 have not been paid for, but that if we had not made these gifts our own economy would have been vastly less efficient.
ENGLAND AS EXAMPLE
This theory that we grow rich by what we give away points to England as an example. It is true that for 60 years England extended credit to enable her producers to sell goods abroad. Thus there were accumulated great balances on which interest and sinking funds were in part paid to England by deliveries of food and raw materials.
It is also true that a considerable part of the goods exported were not paid for because some countries went bankrupt.
For this reason, John Maynard Keynes in his last years urged England to reduce its unproductive exports. This was the same Keynes who had a powerful influence on President Roosevelt and New Deal economists and used all this influence to induce us to spend, lend and give away in order to keep our wheels turning. What was sauce for the goose apparently was bitter mash for the gander.
NEW DEAL ARGUMENT
Once when F.D.R. was preparing a speech, a young New Deal lawyer came to him with a bright political answer to the critics of pump priming. He said that under Coolidge and Hoover the United States was really engaged in pump priming. But the stuff produced did not remain in this country, as the Roosevelt administration proposed. It went abroad on credit extended by American private investors and was never paid for. This argument Roosevelt vigorously used to further his policies.
When war arrived it was no longer necessary to talk pump priming here because we began to give stuff away in colossal amounts — $43,000,000,000 worth under lend-lease. Since the war we have continued to export goods and services worth $7,500,000,000 to $10,000,000,000 annually.
We are now told that we cannot release our grip on this bear’s tail. If we do, we cut off a market for at least 5 per cent of our production and we kill 3,000,000 jobs.
COUPLE OF ANSWERS
A partial answer to this is that a lot of the stuff we are exporting can be used at home. Another answer, which labor leaders will give, is that we could use all this margin at home if we increased purchasing power by raising wages.
At this point it might be suggested that if all capitalist countries must give away a part of what they produce and all Communist countries use all they produce the time will come when the Communists will have all the wealth. This is a very pessimistic view, however, since there are other factors in a capitalist economy which increase wealth and production much faster than any Communist scheme is able to do.
But the living-by-giving arguments must be answered when Europe’s needs decline. Must we forever maintain our balance by throwing away part of what we produce?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY