Truman's Speeches Foster
West Coast Labor Troubles
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
President Truman's reckless
attacks on the Taft-Hartley Act
have not only made for more
labor trouble in California, but
have raised the question of
why he has not invoked that
law to settle a vital and unnecessary strike in the oil industry.
When that strike was brewing early in September, it was
believed, even by union leaders,
that it would be short. But
Truman's speech in Detroit
seemed to sharpen the determination of those leaders to get
while the getting was good
and made an early settlement
more difficult. In turn, it raised
the question in the minds of
the oil management as to why
the President failed to invoke
his powers under that act to
stop a strike which potentially
would endanger the national
health and safety.
THE STRIKE ANALYZED
But since the President had
called the Taft-Hartley Act a
maker of labor trouble and
since Harold Stassen had
pointed out that Truman had
already invoked the act eight
times, the President could
hardly act on the eve of his
California campaign. Meanwhile, the strike has continued
to the point where vital shortages may occur this fall and
certainly will take place when
winter heating is needed. For
when oil production is stopped
for a week or a month, the loss
cannot be made up in an industry which needs a full and
continuous output.
This strike is mainly over
wages, and it hits six big companies: Standard of California,
Union, Tide Water, Texas, Rich-
field and Shell. The Oil Workers' International Union, a CIO
unit, expected a 171½ to 18-cent
increase, and the companies offered 121/2 cents.
The strike is something of a
shock to the companies, for the
industry has been singularly
free of labor trouble in the
past. It is a rich industry, and
its men, particularly the employees in the big refineries,
have been well paid and have
been satisfied and loyal workers. Its average wage, including the present offer of 12½
cents, would be $14.40 a day.
This is exceeded among the big
industries only by shipbuilding and repair.
THE LEADERS BLAMED
The companies point out that
their offer more than makes up
for the rise in the cost of living since the last raise. They
also believe with good reason
that, if a vote had been taken,
the men would have accepted
their offer.
Apparently the union leaders
underestimated the capacity of
the companies to continue to
supply their customers. Their
reserves were large, and they
have not only continued to produce a little, but have brought
back supplies from the Middle
West.
The maritime workers, under Harry Bridges and also on
strike, have sought in many
ways to associate the two
strikes.
If the President persists in
his slam-bang campaigning on
a class against class basis, he
may greatly injure the national
interest without materially
helping his political chances.
For nothing is clearer than the
general disposition of union
members to settle for the Taft-
Hartley Act and to go on producing.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.