GOVERNOR'S DAUGHTERS—Gov. Warren's daughters,
Dorothy, left, and Nina as they paraded for dad with
J. McClutchen before balloting started at convention.
MOLEY LAUDS WARREN
FOR 'COSMIC INTEGRITY'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
PHILADELPHIA, June 24—
Earl Warren sometimes has
sorely tried the patience of his
most admiring and loyal friends.
He is of Scandinavian ancestry
and moves slowly. Sometimes appointments to State offices pile
up on his desk while he laboriously searches for the qualifications of each suggested appointee. He cannot be pushed;
and any suggestion of pressure is hotly resented. He has an almost cosmic integrity.
This reporter's knowledge of
Warren and contact with him
goes back more than 20 years.
At that time he was District
Attorney of Alameda County. He
had been in that office only a
short time. He was quietly and
carefully organizing a big law
enforcement office.
Careful Organizer
He did not perform like most
District Attorneys who seek a
few sensational cases and make
the headlines in a big way. He
carefully organized his office. He
avoided the exploitation of any
single case. All cases, little and
big, were handled with care and
his assistants shared in all the
publicity that came. That is the
way a District Attorney's office
should be run.
My concern, 20 years ago, was
the writing of a book about
prosecution and after visiting
every major prosecuting office in
the country my published opinion was that Warren was the
best District Attorney in the
United States.
Becomes Attorney General
Despite his success, he did not
immediately seek higher office.
He remained in Oakland 10 years
more. Then, because he was
known and respected by his fellow District Attorneys all over
California, he became Attorney
General of the State almost without opposition.
In 1942 there was a call to the
Governorship. Warren hesitated
and suggested that President
Sproul of the State University
was a better prospect. Sproul decided not to run and Warren
entered the race. He won and
four years later he was renominated by both parties.
It can now be recorded that
in 1944 Gov. Dewey tried with
all the wiles of which he is capable to get Warren to accept the
Vice-Presidential nomination.
Warren said to an intimate who
acted as an intermediary that he
could not accept. His reason was
that he had been elected by the
people of his State to do a job
and in conscience he had to
finish it. He resisted all pressure, even that brought by his
oldest friends.
California Candidate
Since then, he has carefully
avoided any commitment to
Dewey or to any other candidate.
He decided to be California's
candidate this year and refused
to seek delegates anywhere else.
In this convention he avoided
participation in any movements
to stop Dewey or to stop anyone
else. Such participation is not
his way of going about his duty.
Finally, when Warren saw
that Dewey was a real choice of
the delegates, he moved. And his
action put Dewey across the line.
He emerges with a stature recognized by all parties.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.