DEWEY SEEN AS AID
TO LOCAL POLITICOS
Belief That Governor Can Poll More Votes
in Large Cities Linked to Their Ambitions
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
PHILADELPHIA, June 23—
As this is written late today it
is an understatement to say that
most informed observers at the
convention expect Dewey to be
nominated. It is still possible
that Dewey can be stopped. But
the Dewey momentum is enough
to justify a number of conclusions.
It is not a Dewey blitz as his
opponents call it. The fact is
that Dewey’s managers preferred
and anticipated a slower pace
in the building up of Dewey’s
strength. But natural forces take
over in a convention which override all plans and plotting.
Dewey’s first, and perhaps
greatest, element of strength is
the feeling among local politicians generously represented
here among delegates, that
Dewey can get more votes than
Taft or Vandenberg. There is no
doubt at all here about the ability of any of the leading candidates winning in November.
That is taken for granted.
But it is roughly figured that
Dewey would get a couple of
million more votes than Taft,
and that he would get them in
large industrial centers. Dewey
always has been strong in New
York City. Taft, on the other
hand, in his Senatorial campaigns, has run behind in Ohio
cities except in Cincinnati.
Pennsylvania Tradition
That means that local organizations such as those in Chicago,
and in big centers in New Jersey
and Pennsylvania, prefer Dewey
because he would help their local tickets. Also it should be
noted that many, perhaps a quarter of the Republican Congress-
men hold their seats by a margin
of 2% or 3%. To them a better
vote getter at the head of the
ticket means everything.
In specific cases other natural
political forces are operating.
Sen. Martin’s preference for
Dewey becomes clear in the light
of Pennsylvania politics. It is
a Pennsylvania tradition that a
powerful Senator rules the organization in considerable part
because of Federal patronage.
Governors come and go but a
Cameron or a Penrose goes on
and on. Martin no doubt anticipates such power. Gov. Duff
is in for two and a half years.
Martin will be Senator until
1953.
Other Senators are thinking of
similar situations.
Dewey Men Experienced
Gov. Green of Illinois wants to
be Vice-President. And with
Dewey for President such a running mate would be logical. His
delegation is overwhelmingly for
Dewey. Col. McCormick is all
that causes hesitation since he
wants Taft.
This is logical moreover in the
way Dewey’s campaign has been
organized. Dewey believes in
continuity in his immediate advisors and managers. The group
closest to him now is the same
as that gathered here eight years
ago. They have learned a lot
since the Willkie blitz. His three
political managers are able to
go over more ground than a single
head like Taft’s Clarence Brown.
For F.D.R.’s drive for the nomination in 1932 there were three
managers. Farley was the front
man, Flynn and Howe were just
as active. Dewey may yet lose
but logic and natural forces favor him as the balloting begins.
Hawaiian Visits Truman
WASHINGTON, June 23 (AP)—
Gov. Ingram M. Stainback of
Hawaii called at the White
House today to pay his respects
to President Truman and “talk
over some of Hawaii’s problems.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.