The most common criticism
of the Thomas Un-American
Activities Committee is that of
"smearing."
This ugly word, however, sug-
gests not one, but two political
tricks. The first is, the act of
real hit-and-run smearing of
innocent people by unprincipled
people. The second is to cry
"smear" when any criticism is
leveled at a public official. Neither attack nor defense of this
nature serves the public interest. The publication of interim
reports of the Thomas Committee raises again the question of
whether the evidence presented
has generally been justified despite serious injury to innocent
people.
That Currie, White and Hiss
have been seriously injured cannot be doubted. The death of Mr.
White, no doubt hastened by
the strain of the hearings, was
tragic. The exploitation of this
tragedy, however, by Henry
Wallace for political purpose
was pure demagogy. No such
mourning was revealed by Wallace when under the lash of
executive urging Joe Robinson,
Senate leader, died under the
strain of the court fight in 1937.
NO PERMANENT INJURY
Hiss and Currie can hardly
be permanently injured if they
clear up the questions involved.
If they were duped let them
admit it. But if they used their
great advantages as public officials in the way charged it
should be brought out.
No sympathy whatsoever can
be wasted on those who refuse
to answer on the ground of self-
incrimination. In fact, the most
telling point made by the Committee report is its condemnation of "witnesses who hold reserve commissions in our armed
forces who refuse to answer
whether they were, are or ever
have been members of the Communist Party." President Truman should co-operate with the
Committee sufficiently to revoke
the commissions of such persons at once and to subject
them to searching investigation.
Which brings us back to the
issue of "smearing." Every man
in public office can expect unjust things to be said or printed
about him. His inevitable defense is his sense of personal
rectitude.
Smearing goes on in every
crossroad store, in every Washington cocktail party and, it
may be added, in stories deliberately handed by officials in
Washington to irresponsible
journalists and others.
IN POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS
Smearing is more common,
of course, in political campaigns. Robert Sherwood in his
current series about Harry
Hopkins revives the complaint
that the President was smeared
in the campaign of 1944. Roosevelt himself said in a letter to
James M. Cox that it was a
very dirty campaign.
The "smear" seems to have
been a rumor that the President's health was bad. The very
fact that the cry of "smearing"
would be raised prevented a
public discussion of this vital
qualification in a candidate.
Sherwood, who was close to
the President, admits that he
was shocked by the physical
deterioration of his chief. And
the sad outcome proved that
the stories called "smears" were
true. It was, therefore, a serious
denial of the public's access
to the facts to use the defense
of "smearing" in that case.
The best antidote to both
"smearing" in itself and to the
use of the word as a cover is
full information honestly presented.