Churchill's Retrospect BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In Winston Churchill's memoirs, currently published, there is an account of a conversation the great war Prime Minister had with President Roosevelt over the naming of the second World War.
Churchill suggested that it be called "the unnecessary war." He then goes on to tell how it could have been avoided. With most of his conclusions we all can agree. The British governments of MacDonald, Baldwin and Chamberlain were almost criminally negligent. And Churchill's speeches of warning put him on sound ground. French politics also opened the gates of weakness to the Germans.
Beyond this, Churchill's catalogue of reasons why the war was unnecessary are hardly so sound.
He suggests that there should have been an earlier recognition of the fallacy and futility of reparations. This is hindsight, because when Churchill was Chancellor of the Exchequer in the '20s he energetically sought to get what he could of German reparations. It was later, when the cloud of the great depression spread over Europe, that the realities were enforced on Britain, as well as on the United States. Then, the Hoover moratorium relieved the pressure, temporarily and to a degree. Churchill says, further, that the French should have received the Rhine frontier that they so eagerly claimed. No river, even as broad as the Rhine, could have saved France. Such a frontier might even have increased the deadly sense of security induced by the Maginot Line. The morale and the political disunity of the French were the real weaknesses that no alteration of borders could have cured.
Moreover, to have given the French the west bank of the Rhine would have placed several million Germans inside France, which would certainly have been a further irritant to Germany and a still greater source of disunity for France. Churchill now complains about the dismemberment of the Austrian empire, saying that it Balkanized most of Eastern Europe. But this was an inevitable breakup. It was going on even before the first World War. Minorities were everywhere demanding independence.
Finally, Mr. Churchill makes the familiar complaint about the refusal of the United States government to allow more relief from the debts owed by Europe to us. The British claim in 1932 and 1933 was that since they could not collect from their debtors, they could not pay their big creditor.
A false analogy existed in this argument. The reparations were a fine; the debt to the United States was a real debt. The reparations had been arbitrarily fixed. The debts owed to us were for goods and money actually given. They were, moreover, not war debts. In the various reductions during the '20s, all the money advanced to our allies in the war had been cancelled. The 10 or 12 billions which were owed us in 1938 were loaned after the armistice.
Moreover, Roosevelt in 1933 made no arbitrary demands. Countries such as Italy, Belgium and Poland, which claimed "inability to pay," were permitted to pass their payments. France simply defaulted without explanation. Britain was permitted to make a token payment of about 7% of the amount due in June, 1933. After that, nothing was collected from any country except Finland.
Uncle Sam has many sins on his record, but he was no Uncle Shylock in the period described in Churchill
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.