The French government's decision to devalue the franc is a step in the right direction, regardless of the objections of the International Monetary Fund. It would seem, in fact, that the fund has been utterly unrealistic in its attitude toward European governments' efforts to bring the official value of their currencies in line with the real value. When the fund began to operate a year and a half ago, it sought to convey the impression that it had brought about stabilization of all currencies in non-Soviet Europe. On paper they all had a fixed relationship with the American dollar and the American price of gold. It was ruled that any country that wanted to change this fixed rate by more than 10 per cent would have to apply to the board of the fund for permission. In the present case the French government is proceeding to change its rate of exchange despite a veto by the fund. The real fact is that the domestic value of money in France, Holland, Italy and even England has been far from stabilized. The official rate is at one figure; the real rate insisted upon by hotels, restaurants, stores and farmers is quite another thing. The international effect of this situation is important. It means, for instance, that the farmer who is asked to sell his products at the official rate simply withholds his stuff from the market. He plants less and feeds his grain to his animals. These animals, in turn, he sells in the black market. That means that the United States must make up for the food which is not transported from farms to the cities through regular channels. At the same time, a manufacturer must pay more and more to get labor and materials. Then, when he produces goods for export, the official rate is imposed upon him and he can sell in the export trade to the United States only at a price disastrous to himself. Consequently the producers in a country like France cannot sell in the United States, cannot get dollars and must be helped by some aspect of the Marshall plan. This situation is defeating the very thing we are attempting to meet in the Marshall plan. Herbert Hoover has repeatedly pointed this out and has recommended that stabilization must come from within the countries themselves. Far from trying to prevent countries from devaluing their currencies, as seems to be the objective of the fund, it should be made a condition of E.R.P. to bring their official rates of exchange into line with the real rates to stop inflation, to increase production and to improve the deliveries of food from farms to cities. French devaluation is a step in that proper direction.