RAYMOND MOLEY:
Stability, Not Deflation,
Should Be GOP's Aim
One reason why businessmen
are always jittery in an election
year is that their economic calculations must be tied in with
guesses about what is in the
minds of politicians. And because political minds operate in
a manner quite incomprehensible to the businessman, the
latter is left in a state of worry
and indecision.
At the moment, a great deal
of business thinking is related
to the intentions of Republicans
in Congress. Do those Republicans want to precipitate a minor
recession this year? Those who
answer affirmatively say Republicans fear a business upset next
year, which might be called a
Dewey depression unless it can
be started now and be called a
Truman depression. They also
say Republicans fear that, unless a small upset starts now,
the decline next year will be
much more drastic.
THINKING OF 1930
Sustaining this view is the
fact that Republican Representatives and Senators are thinking of 1930, not 1952. They feel
reasonably certain about their
chances this year. But they are
a superstitious lot, and Congressional reversals after the election of a Republican President
are still fresh in their minds.
Politicians are not only superstitious; they are superficial
economists. That applies with
special force to those who are
talking about making a "little"
Truman depression this year.
They do not realize that depressions cannot be turned on and
off like water from a faucet.
Unless natural forces are working with it, this Republican
Congress could hardly induce a
downward trend of business.
Only in a year like 1920, when
the Federal Reserve Board really wanted to put on the brakes,
could a shock be induced. Let
us see what can be done.
THE POSSIBILITIES
Congress may give plenty of
power to the Federal Reserve
Board to curb bank credit, in
line with Truman's request.
Thus, the President is offered
plenty of rope. But there is no
indication that he will use it.
It is doubtful, in any event,
whether the banks have an excess of credit now. In terms of
purchasing power and relative
volume of business, there is less
available credit than there was
in 1939.
Confronted with tightened
credit controls, the banks would
either raise rates to borrowers
or turn in government bonds to
the Federal Reserve banks. But
the administration can hardly
permit the bond market to fall
In an election year. Hence,
whatever power is given by
Congress to control credit will
hardly be used.
Against deflationary forces
which may be operating, Truman has several effective powers. In pipelines that are now
filling up in several industries,
he can use the ECA to buy and
ship abroad. He will certainly
prevent drastic drops in grain
prices by supports and European buying.
MORE PRICE SUPPORTS
The Department of Agriculture has, in fact, suddenly announced that we will export
almost as much wheat this coming year as we did last year
during the emergency. This, in
face of good crops in Europe.
The administration is obviously
doing all it can to keep prices
up while it talks about the
dangers of inflation.
All this does not indicate that
employment may not decline in
the next few months. The present figure of over 61,000,000 is
abnormal. It can and probably
will decline. Productivity per
man-hour is increasing. But a
decline of a few million in employment will not mean a depression.
If Republicans are wise, they
will hold stability as their objective—stability in prices, in
wages and measurably in employment. Stability should be
the watchword of Dewey's campaign.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.