Ball Gains in Minnesota,
But May Not Gain Enough
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Any commentator who knows his business will issue a warning at this moment in the campaign. State and local results are always greatly influenced by the momentum of a sure winner like Dewey.
In fact, the winning national ticket almost always runs beyond expectations. Roosevelt himself, despite his political know-how, always underestimated his electoral and popular vote. Therefore, in appraising the Senate and House outcome, it is wise to anticipate that the Republican candidates this year will run ahead of most predictions and that in doubtful cases the probability runs toward the Republicans.
In Illinois, this should carry Brooks and Green beyond most present predictions.
BALL'S MISFORTUNE
Minnesota presents a different picture. Sen. Ball is a victim of many misfortunes, for some of which he alone is responsible. His support from national figures, including Warren and Stassen, has not been enthusiastic. His desertion of the national ticket in 1944 has not been forgotten. In his campaign against Humphrey, Mayor of Minneapolis, he is opposed by a shrewd, plausible speaker.
Because Ball's Senatorial record is a long one, he has been questioned on many of his votes. He has tried to answer these criticisms and, hence, has been fighting a defensive battle, which is never an advantage to a candidate. It is a bitter truth, moreover, that Ball's forthrightness during his public service has hurt him. It will be no encouragement to young idealists who want to enter politics to see such an outspoken man defeated. But many voters are moved more by disappointed personal wishes for material gains than by admiration for a public servant who always speaks his mind.
One thing is certain. Ball and Dewey are gaining in these final days. The outcome will depend on the acceleration of this gain and the extent of the present Republican disadvantage.
In Illinois and Minnesota, as well as in Wisconsin, there is not likely to be any great change in the party balance of House seats. Increasing Dewey sentiment may even win in two or three Democratic districts in Illinois. It may even be strong enough to win for Ball.