Presidential Usurpation
and Its Cost in Germany
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Among the infinite variety
of talents ascribed to Winston
Churchill and Franklin D.
Roosevelt no one has been so
hardy as to include a lawyer's
knowledge of and feeling for
law.
Roosevelt was admitted to
the bar after an incomplete
turn in law school, but he
never went seriously into its
study or practice. Harry S.
Truman secured a law degree
while serving in a political job
in Missouri, but apparently
never attained standing at the
bar. My references do not indicate Prime Minister Attlee's
legal erudition. Joseph Stalin
is not generally known as a
jurist, certainly not in the field
of international law. Stalin
may be known in history as a
lawgiver, but more will be
noted of his capacity as a law
taker-away.
Yet these men at various Big
Three meetings laid down specifications for the disposition of
Germany that in practice have
had the effect of law.
CONGRESS DIDN'T KNOW
Congress only dimly realized
what was going on, but it may
be assumed that by the time
Germany is pretty well dismantled it will know that someone has been usurping its power, for some years.
The nearest that Congress
has come to an indication of
its true authority over the occupation policies in Germany is
in the report of the House Select Committee on Foreign Aid,
a report numbered 1500 and issued this year. The report
holds up a threatening finger
at the President, implying that
Congress should have had joint
responsibility in the entire reparation and demolition program
which has been carried out by
the President acting with the
heads of foreign states and, on
his own initiative, entering into
agreements with them.
The complaint of Congress is
strengthened by the fact that
in the disposal of German property and the demolition of its
industries the Allies seem to
have violated The Hague Convention of 1907 and the Brussels conference of 1873 concerning
the powers of a military
occupant. The ironical over-
tone in this situation is that
a number of Nazi leaders were
found guilty at Nuremberg for
violating this very convention
concerning occupied territory.
The Morgenthau Plan, initiated at Quebec by Churchill
and Roosevelt, would have
been a gross violation of international law. Hull and Stimson, of course, prevented its
complete adoption, but enough
of it has been carried over into
our occupation policies to retard the peace, impoverish
Europe and to cost this country billions of dollars in aid.
An able lawyer, John W.
Brabner-Smith, who was a
member of the military government staff in Germany and
Japan, reviews the whole situation in the current Virginia
Law Review.
He says that "a reversal of
our earlier policy has apparently been completed.", But he
also quotes the House report
to the effect that "the reduction of industry and the total
neglect of the German economy have not yet been entirely eliminated from the policy of the United States."
Mr. Brabner-Smith moreover
makes a clear case for the
rights of Congress which have
been disregarded by two Presidents.
The tragedy in this situation
is that so much injury has already been done that Congress
when it finally awakens will be
unable to do anything except
belatedly to lock the barn door.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.