Some Reassuring Signs
Seen in Truman Plans
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In all this vale of transitory
things, the most fleeting is a
campaign speech. This is not,
as many people believe, because
candidates do not tell the truth.
It is because campaign oratory
deals with a rapidly changing
world and generally looks backward at things as they were.
promises, therefore, are
hitched to conditions which
voters have already felt and
seen, and often have little application to the world as it is
the morning after election.
So it seems to be with President Truman's campaign against
inflation. Probably a number of
the millions who voted for him
did so because they expected
him to bring prices down, set
up controls and improve the
purchasing power of wages.
Other millions did so because
they expected him to uphold
the farmer's minimum prices.
The pay-off is now due. As an
honest man, the President expects to pay.

PRICES LEVEL OFF

But a lot has happened since
his speeches were made. The
prediction, made in this column
in September, that price increases for the time being had
probably run their course has
been verified. That, I may add,
is a prediction for which there
are no regrets.
The commodity price level of
the New York Journal of Commerce registered a drop from
more than 320 in January to 278
on Nov. 24. It is now evident
that for the time being the cost-of-living index will show no
seriously rising trend. For the
first time it shows a decline.
Perhaps, had the Republican
candidate appreciated the argument why this would take place
and had he known the October
price index and made it known
to others, he might have been
spared disaster. But Truman
luckily was spared that attack
and luckily he may now approach his task, which once
seemed impossible, with confidence of success.

CAUTION EVIDENT

Dr. Edwin C. Nourse, chairman of the President's Council
of Economic Advisers, is to direct the administration's drive
to fulfill the campaign promises
on prices. The announcement
of the Nourse appointment indicates a degree of caution which
must spring from the changed
conditions, Nourse is to head a
team of responsible Cabinet
members and department heads.
The job is not being assigned
to the Council of Economic Advisers, on which Leon Keyserling is an influential member
and whose views have been
alarming to conservative people.
Apparently Keyserling and his
views are to be kept in the
background.
There seems to be no disposition to revive wartime controls. Secretary of Agriculture
Brannan, who will serve on the
Nourse team, has never been
enthusiastic about controls.
Secretary of Commerce Sawyer
has at various times expressed
the thought that less food
should be exported, thus to keep
down prices. On the other hand,
Secretary of Labor Tobin has
greatly encouraged labor in its
drive for a fourth round of
wage increases.

NO OPA REVIVAL

Chester Bowles, former champion of controls and now Governor-elect of Connecticut, says
that nothing like the old OPA
is to be expected.
What we are witnessing is an
administration hurriedly taking
note of changing conditions and
seeking means to avoid a
straight repudiation of campaign promises, while giving
considerable leeway to visible
natural forces to bring prices
under control. This is a measure
of reassurance to those who, immediately after the election,
were in a panic about the
months ahead.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.