Warren's Unique Appeal
Is Revealed by His Tour
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
People close to Earl Warren in the growing apprehension of
were described as being in a the country about war there is
"speech panic" just before the no market for a purely partisan
Vice Presidential candidate appeal. Great numbers of
started on his long trip cast. Democrats who are dissatisfied
They wondered what he was with Truman are looking for
going to talk about in so many a place to go. Warren is ap-
public appearances. When I pealing to them. He knows, as
visited California shortly after everyone knows, that Repub-
the long Warren train left, it licans can hardly be alienated
was apparent that there was from their candidates. And
real fear on that subject. Dewey and Warren must con-
In contrast with the meticu- vince millions who voted for
lous fact-assembling system Roosevelt four years ago.
which I saw in Dewey's train Warren's campaign, more-
at Albuquerque, Warren's staff over, is ideal for a Vice-Presi-
is very small. It takes a lot of dential candidate. It would not
work to prepare the speeches do for a Presidential candidate,
for a long campaign trip—a who must be specific, especially
fact which the Dewey people when he is opposing the occu-
know from experience. War- pant of the office. The candi-
ren, however, is a leisurely date for President must out-
worker. And he has strong line the plans and policies
convictions about doing things which will dominate the scene
on his own. after he has taken the oath of
And so, without great prepa- office.
ration, he set forth, completely A Vice-President is a symbol,
confident in his ability to win not the wielder of authority.
friends and influence voters. But he is an important symbol.
Now, after crossing the con- And, if elected, Warren can be
tinent, he has apparently jus- a powerful means of creating a
tified his own confidence and better national atmosphere.
confounded his worried help-
ers. He has talked of home-
spun things—of unity, of good
government, of nonpartisan-
ship. He has modestly ad-
mitted that all virtue is not
confined to the Republican
Party. The listening public
seems to have been satisfied
and greatly pleased. And, mir-
acle of miracles, the hungry
crowd of reporters on his train
have been satisfied, too. They
are not easily satisfied, because
they must produce news every
day, and if there is no news
in the speeches they must
make news of the candidate.
It goes without saying that
Warren has been an outstand-
ing success as a candidate.
There are several reasons for
this. One is President Truman
himself, who by his slugging
campaign had made Warren's
mild talk of unity and the like
a welcome contrast.
The fact that Warren is a
new figure in national politics
adds to his success. The other
candidates are well known.
Their methods have been seen
before. Warren has been
something of a myth, especially
in the East. People knew he
was Governor of California and
that his State admired him.
But the country is now getting
acquainted with Warren the
man.
There is also the fact that
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.