What Will Happen If
GOP Loses the Senate
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
After visiting several States
where critical Senatorial contests are being held, the conclusion must be reached that there is a possibility verging on a probability that the Democrats may recapture the Senate. Briefly summarized, the situation is this:
The Republicans have five seats in danger—in Oklahoma, Kentucky, West Virginia, Wyoming and Minnesota. Reliable reports from those States indicate that at the moment things look black for Republicans in Oklahoma, West Virginia and Minnesota; gray in Kentucky and indeterminate in Wyoming. In the latter case, the issue is whether Gov. Hunt, a strong Democrat, can get on the ballot. Republicans can take Democratic seats in Montana and New Mexico. After visiting those States, I would say that Republican chances are fair, not good. In Rhode Island, their chances are very slim. In Tennessee, there is only a rare chance.
At present, the Senate contains 51 Republicans and 45 Democrats. The reader can form his own calculations. The net result might be a tie, in which Vice-President Earl Warren could, under the Constitution, cast the deciding vote. In such a case, the California family man would have to sleep on a cot in his office. The memory is still fresh in Washington of the time when Vice-President Dawes, asleep in his hotel room, was absent from a crucial vote and President Coolidge lost a Cabinet appointment.
Let us suppose that the Republicans lose four seats net. What would happen?
The most important change—granted that the present ranking Democrats remain on the committees on which they served in the 80th Congress—would be a shift in chairmanships.
Elmer Thomas of Oklahoma would become chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. Thomas is, to say the least, an old-time partisan of soft money and high farm prices.
McKellar of Tennessee would be chairman of Appropriations. Tydings would head the Committee on Armed Services. Wagner, who has been ill for some time, would head Banking and Currency, with Maybank next in line. It might be added that if anything should remove these two, the Hon. Glen H. Taylor would be in charge.
Finance would go to George of Georgia, a sound and able master of finance.
Interstate and Foreign Commerce would go to Ed Johnson of Colorado.
Public Works would go to Chavez of New Mexico. Sen. Chavez is not in the best of health and if he proved unable to serve, Sheridan Downey would move in.
Most important, perhaps, in these troubled times would be the supplanting of Vandenberg as chairman of Foreign Affairs. Connally would succeed him.
Also, it should be added that Taft would be succeeded on the Labor and Public Welfare Committee by Elbert Thomas.
Not all of these changes would be disastrous. Some would represent improvements. But the general effect would be to confuse responsibility if Dewey is elected and, in some instances, place vital national concerns in very weak hands.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.