Reasons for the Decline. _ BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Once more the massive fecundity of Mother Earth has routed the pretensions of shortsighted men. Proposals for price control, which were plausibly offered as indispensable a few weeks ago, are now mere embarrassments to those who suggested them. Natural law, once derided by President Roosevelt as a cure for economic troubles, seems to be working once more. And when natural law operates, it uses an ax.
It is not difficult to see why wise people have been selling grain. They have been keeping up their home work far better than the people in Washington who want to regulate us. The administration has been thinking in last year's figures. The market has noted last week's figures.
One of the dangers into which the administration has fallen has been too great reliance upon the figures of the International Emergency Food Council. Throughout 1946 and 1947, this body presented most formidable estimates of world export requirements and exceedingly pessimistic estimates of grains available for export. Repeatedly, these estimates have been proved to be too gloomy. As long ago as the spring of 1946, Herbert Hoover, after his trip around the world, reduced their estimated requirements by two-thirds.
In October, the I.E.F.C. figured world requirements at 50,000,000 tons and the exports available at 29,000,000 tons for the fiscal year July 1, 1947, to June 30, 1948. The President's Cabinet committee for world food programs accepted the figure of available exports at 29,000,000 tons, but scaled down requirements to 33,500,000 tons. That estimated gap of 4,500,000 tons has had a lot to do with skyrocketing prices.
Figures made available to this column at that time by Dr. Julius Hirsch and Edith Hirsch made these official figures very doubtful. Accordingly, three months ago this column expressed disagreement about the estimated "gap." Four weeks ago, it expressed doubt again and concluded that "a fair interpretation of available facts throws a rather favorable light on the prospects of natural checks on inflation in 1948. For food is the heart of the problem."
These facts are now apparent to the market and seem to be dimly appearing to the administration. And the cream of the jest is that most of the figures now appearing come from the grab bag of government statistics.
The so-called "gap" of 4,500,000 tons has apparently disappeared on the basis of developments over the last two months. The figures showing this are available to all. They appear in Foreign Crops and Markets, a publication of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and in Broomhall's Corn Trade News, a very reliable British publication. They show that when increases in the grains available for export from all countries except the United States and Canada are summed up the total is 33,825,000 tons instead of the 29,000,000 tons predicted by the administration last fall. This figure also does not take account of the possibility of better crops next year.
The political and economic implications of this newly discovered situation are very important. They will require political parties and business organizations drastically to reshape their plans.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.