Gloom at Convention
Compared to '32 Glory
Great Leaders Dead or in Eclipse and Party
Lacks Unity and Hope Inspired by Roosevelt
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
PHILADELPHIA, July 14—
Since the Democratic platform
labored at great length to contrast the day when the Democrats came in and this present
time, it may be well to extend
the comparison still further.
They won the election in 1932
with the shortest platform on
record. They stand to lose with
one of the longest. They entered with a compact program of
reform and recovery; they now
offer as assorted a jumble of
vote-bait as any party ever assembled.
In 1932 Roosevelt united his
party. The real backbone of the
group that put him over was
the West and the South. The
industrial States and the bosses
accepted him with great reluctance.
Many Strong Men
The strong men of the convention 16 years ago were, in addition to Roosevelt and Farley,
a group of southern Senators,
Congressmen and Governors.
Garner, a Southerner, made
Roosevelt's nomination possible.
Texas broke the log jam and
eliminated the danger of a dark
horse. California put on the
final touches. Glass, Hull and
others dominated platform-making.
That 1932 convention ended
on a happy, hopeful note. It was
the promise of a great revival.
No one who saw that convention and has seen this one can
help leaving with a deep sense
of regret.
Here today the South is in rebellion. The West is hopelessly
divided by factions. Many of the
massive figures of 1932 are dead.
And there are no worthy successors. Others, like Garner and
Farley, are in eclipse.
California Amateurs
Texas, represented by former
Gov. Moody, was the first to oppose the platform. California is
represented by a delegation of
amateurs, dissidents and visionaries. New York is almost unnoticed.
There is no coherence in the
platform—only memories and
promises and more of the same.
A Chief Executive is being
nominated with what amounts
to a general apology. He is only
moderately acclaimed and he is
not entirely to blame for what
has happened. He has tried to
carry out Roosevelt's policies.
A Democrat of great standing in
the party told this reporter that
no man in his memory has ever
been treated so badly by those
who should have stood by him.
There are scarcely any notable
figures here. McGrath is known
only by name. He can pass
through a crowd almost without
notice. Where once there was a
Glass, now there is a Pepper.
Here and there is a ghost of
past years—someone out of long
retirement and obscurity.
The party will leave this city
despondent and embittered.
There are no plans for a campaign. There are no issues except spurious ones. All that the
orators have suggested is a
desperate Kamikaze attack on
the Republicans by suggesting
that Dewey is a dictator and that
Republicans are Fascists.
What of these 16 years that
began on such a note of promise? Let the ancient prophet
answer: "The harvest is ended.
The summer is past and we are
not saved."
Supporters Die Hard
PHILADELPHIA, July 14 (AP)
O’Mahoney—for Vice-President
headquarters still is operating at
the Democratic convention today, even though the Wyoming
Senator had released delegates
pledged to him.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.