German Know-How in Ruhr
Key to European Revival
The Ruhr, with its vast industrial potential, is the key to the prosperity of Western Europe. But the facts so far show how absurd it is to operate such a region through the divergent ideas of three nations. This applies specifically to the Ruhr coal mines.
Summed up, the facts are these: Britain is too inefficient to operate the mines. France is afraid to let the Germans operate them. And the U.S. authorities are getting tired of paying not only for British inefficiency but for French fear.
BRITISH CONSENT
It was not until last year that the United States was able to take a hand in the management of the Ruhr. This was done with the full consent of the British, who realized their incapacity to carry on alone. In the past months they have been in full agreement with the American idea of restoring the mines to German management.
There is a bit of irony in this, since the Attlee Socialists have pressed for nationalization in Britain while they have moved toward private management in Germany. And now, thoroughly alarmed at the thought of German recovery, the National Assembly of France is trying to keep responsibility out of German hands.
Three and a half years of occupation have brought German mines back to only about three-quarters of wartime production. And this despite a considerably larger number of workers, extra deliveries of food and more incentives for full work. The general manager of the Ruhr mines, one Kost, recently reported that the production of bituminous coal is at 65% of the prewar figure.
PRODUCTION DOUBLED
Reduced to production per worker, the figure before the war was two tons per shift per worker. After the first World War, before the advent of great mechanical improvements, it was one ton per worker. Now, it is one and a third tons per worker.
Kost points out further that postwar mining has only taken place in the best coal seams. This is a most shortsighted policy, for it means that 20% of the coal in the poorer seams thus neglected remains in the earth and is definitely lost.
The present effort of American and British authorities is to grant a measurable return of the mines to private management. This does not mean the return of the mines to their former owners, but by other incentives to grant larger and larger scope to private management under strict Allied supervision.
American interest in Ruhr coal production is vital. The more coal Germany can export, directly or indirectly in manufactured goods, the less American money will need to be spent in the importing countries.
SEE FRENCH FEARS
There is no disposition to minimize the fears of the French. But it can be contended that public ownership can be combined with private management operating under special incentives of profit. This has been done in German electricity production and in much of German transportation even before Hitler.
German know-how is essential to the reconstruction of the complicated industrial mechanisms of the Ruhr Basin. Even American know-how would fall, because American mining problems differ essentially from those of Germany. But the American principle of private management is essential, and that is what Americans are trying to install.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.