Candidate Warren
When Robert G. Sproul, president of the University of California, places Gov. Earl Warren in nomination at the Philadelphia Republican convention, the country will realize that a really formidable candidate has appeared on the scene.
In 1944 Warren did not seek the nomination and did not seem to want it. He was the favorite for Vice-President, but firmly refused. Things are different now. He still does not want the second place, but he is an active, serious candidate for President. Warren, as well as every one of his supporters, is imbued with a feeling that time and circumstances will be favorable.
Throughout his career Warren has shown an excellent sense of timing which, in politics, is indispensable. His judgment about when and how to run for the various offices he has won has always been justified by the result. In 1944 he refused the nomination for Vice-President despite the urging not only of his delegation, but of Candidate Dewey. His reason was that his candidacy would hurt, not help, the national ticket in California, because the people of that State expected him to finish the job to which he had been elected two years before. This decision was probably right in principle. Certainly, it was practical in the light of the result in November.
Warren has never been defeated for public office. He took his time about seeking a State office while he held the position of District Attorney in Oakland for 13 years. On the other hand he has maintained no coy reluctance to announce his candidacy this year such as has characterized the attitude of Sen. Vandenberg.
While Taft, Stassen and Dewey are tearing each other apart, Warren is pursuing his own course. It can be categorically denied that anything like a deal with any other candidate exists. It has been rumored that Stassen or Taft would make him Attorney General. Such rumors are, it should be added, not the personal suggestions of Stassen or Taft. The answer is that Warren has a better job now than that of Attorney General. It has also been rumored that an emissary of Dewey has seen Warren in Sacramento. Warren has seen no such person. Other rumors of this sort will pop up and they can be ignored. Warren is running only for the Presidency.
People inimical to Warren will say he is not a good party man, that he has campaigned as an independent and that he has been successful in both Republican and Democratic primaries. The habit of running in both primaries is indigenous to California. Everybody does it. Warren’s attitude toward the Republican regulars in his State has been kindly but firm. He has had no spectacular battles with his party, as Franklin Roosevelt had in New York. But he has insisted on being his own Governor, and now the party regards him as its authentic leader.
Warren’s supporters make several major points for his availability as a candidate. He is calm, logical and judicial in approaching problems of government. As an administrator, he takes plenty of time in appointing a department head and then expects that department head to exercise the same care in selecting people for the lower levels of government. Since his graduation from law school, Warren has given his life entirely to the public service. This is, of course, true also of Stassen and Dewey, but Warren has been at it longer. This primary concern with government as a career has developed in him a profound sense of the public interest, as distinguished from piecemeal concerns with the many separate and special interests which collectively make up the public.
The roots of Warren’s life are in labor. But as Governor he has attempted to induce labor to see its interest in the light of a larger public interest. Despite the pressure of labor leaders, he permitted an anti-secondary-boycott bill to become law, and he signed a bill outlawing jurisdictional strikes. He then went before a labor convention and appealed successfully to the rank and file over the heads of the leaders.
To repeat, these are some of the points that will be made in behalf of Warren as a Presidential candidate.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.