RAYMOND MOLEY:
Absurdity of Lie Detectors
in the Spy Investigation
It is neither fair nor intelligent to call the present inquiries of the House Un-American Activities Committee a "witch hunt" or a "red herring."
But it is only fair to suggest that the value of this committee's work is impaired when it proposes the use of a "lie detector" in resolving the Hiss-Chambers dispute. It is not helping itself in the minds of people who know something about "lie detection," although it is marking up a big doubt against Hiss in the minds of unthinking people.
The fact is that Hiss is quite right in refusing to submit to this test, and the reasons he gives for his refusal are generally sound.
The idea of a "lie detector" has been well known in this world for several centuries. A custom once existed in Asia which attempted to determine guilt or innocence by requiring the accused to take a mouthful of rice and then spew it out. If the rice turned out to be dry the accused was deemed guilty. If it was wet he was innocent. The point of the test was that a guilty person when accused would be very nervous and his supply of saliva would dry up.
Over the past 20 or 30 years various police and prosecuting agencies have experimented on suspects with devices for measuring blood pressure, respiration, heart action, and the like. These were efforts to measure the state of "nerves" when questions were asked which related to certain matters in the history of the crime. August Vollmer, Chief of Police in Berkeley, Cal., attracted a great deal of attention by experiments of this nature nearly 20 years ago.
The courts, however, were very wary of the lie detector and so far as I know never accepted its results as important evidence.
Some years ago a graduate student in psychology at Columbia University submitted an excellent doctoral dissertation on the subject. I was a member of the faculty committee which examined this study. It was clear to me both from the evidence produced in the study itself and the discussions of the committee that it would be a long time before science could reveal guilt by any mechanical device.
The simple fact is that innocence may quake at a policeman's badge, and black guilt face a court without a tremor. It's a question of nerves and an individual's capacity to control them. The innocent sometimes "flee when no man pursueth."
In the present instance Hiss has suddenly been charged with something that might wreck his career. Chambers is not in any danger. It would hardly be fair to expect Hiss not to be nervous.
The Thomas Committee has not helped itself with informed people by this absurd proposal.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.