On Dropping Truman
Pilgrims returning from Washington over the past week report that the capital is blue with pessimism about keeping out of war with Russia. But this subject is only a little higher on the topical list than the bitter prospects of Democratic jobholders. The Truman prestige is at a new low. Perhaps there is some connection between these two foci of grief. When a fellow—in this case a Democrat—sees his personal ship sinking, it is not strange for him to imagine that the world, too, is moving toward catastrophe.
The Czech putsch, the Finnish squeeze, the imminent Italian election, the dreadful straits of Britain, the need to push the Marshall plan—all play a part in war talk, of course. And so does the military atmosphere in official Washington.
But to return to the Truman decline, one can have little sympathy for those Democrats who were responsible for the Missouri Senator’s nomination for Vice-President. In Edward J. Flynn’s book, “You’re the Boss,” there is a cold-blooded and, I am sure, truthful account of the selection of Truman.
When the party leaders, including Flynn, met with Roosevelt to select a running mate, the late President was tired, ill and indifferent. He veered from one choice to another and finally agreed to the argument of Flynn. That argument was that, of all the many aspirants, Truman would do the ticket the least harm. Nobody, says Flynn, could have helped a ticket headed by Roosevelt. Then, when Wallace became a threat in Chicago, the strategists figured that Truman, because of his origin in a border State, would be most likely to win over the several southern favorites for the Vice-Presidency.
And so Truman was selected, for no reasons other than these. No one brought up the potential qualities of the man. Considering all this, the Democrats and the country are fortunate that Truman has proved to be as good as he is.
It is ironical that the South took Truman to defeat Wallace, and now Truman slaps the South to win votes from Wallace.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
to his deep instinct to be loyal to his party. Even now, it is not clear that he really wants to run again. I learned in Kansas City last week that he has expressed to his intimates in Independence, a yearning for home.
But talk of dropping Truman must be taken with great reservations. He is surrounded by men whose only hope is in Truman. There is no outstanding alternative. In this situation a party must close ranks and move with what it has. The last instance in which a Vice-President—President was dropped was that of Chester A. Arthur in 1844. Arthur, like Truman, had done well under trying circumstances. He wanted to be renominated. But there had been so many indications of public disapproval of the party that to renominate Arthur would have been suicidal. Also, there was Blaine, an authentic great man who had strongly contested the nomination twice before.
There is no Blaine in the present Democratic Party.
Finally, a word of warning is in order. The sad status of the Truman case may be temporary. He has been popular before. He may gain in the months to come.
In all the maneuvering in 1944, it was clear that Truman himself was not eager to be nominated. He was responding