The 'Don't Know' Voters
Simply Wouldn't Tell
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Polls struck to earth will rise
to poll again. But it is to be
hoped that in the future they
will limit themselves to measuring trends and refrain from predictions. Polls have a useful
place in the process of government, but because they have so
often been right or because
they claimed to be right they
assumed powers and pretensions which were neither wholesome nor justified.
The polls had uncanny influence over some politicians.
Dewey, whose precise mind was
attracted by their "scientific"
pretensions, followed the polls
with great interest. Finally,
this indulgence resulted in
disaster. For the campaign was
tempered to the rhythm of the
polls, and followers were lulled
to sleep.
SOME WOULDN'T TELL
But Dewey can hardly be
blamed for this. The Gallup
polls were a powerful factor in
getting him the nomination in
1944. He was so far ahead of
other contenders before the convention that year that he
scarcely had to seek the nomination at all. It was different
this time, because the threat of
Eisenhower in the polls early in
the year stimulated his followers to intense activity.
Elmo Roper, in explaining
what happened, points to an exceedingly important reason why
things went wrong. He estimates that an abnormal percentage of those interviewed
answered "Don't know." Most
of these reticent people, he
thinks, voted for Truman.
Human nature being what it
is, we may assume that the
reason so many Truman voters
failed to indicate their preference was their fear of being
out of step, out of fashion or
unpopular. Secretly they preferred Truman, but they hated
to say so publicly.
But it is difficult to see how
Roper or anyone else can accurately measure such subtle
traits in human nature. We
may know that such motives
are present, but measurement
is impossible.
Polls can still be useful in
guiding the managers of a campaign. They indicate where and
when greater efforts should be
made to educate voters or to
induce people to vote. But such
polls taken by party managers
should be secret.
FRUSTRATING FACTOR
There is a factor which, it
has always seemed to me, will
forever frustrate efforts to forecast accurately the result of
elections by polls alone. Let us
assume that at some future
time the polls obtain such accuracy that they can state exactly on Oct. 1 how the voters
feel at that time. And what
is most important, let us assume that all voters know this
poll to be accurate. In that case,
this knowledge will most certainly change the result.
Those who favor the Oct. 1
favorite will work less actively.
Those who are behind will
either give up or work harder.
Those who want to vote with
the winner will mount the
band wagon. The results, therefore, will be changed. Human
nature will frustrate science.
But this year all signs failed.
It has always been my practice to rely more heavily on
the opinions of local newspaper
reporters than on polls. In the
past they have always been
more accurate. Even this time,
they were more accurate about
Senate races. But they, too, underestimated Truman's strength.
So while the polls are the
heaviest sufferers in this upset, it is only fair to say that
all observers must share some
of the punishment which human nature inflicted on the
experts.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.