Religious Education and Freedom
Baldwin-Wallace College at Berea, O., is an institution whose antecedents and control relate to the Methodist Church. Both of the colleges which were merged into the present school were founded by people who earnestly believed in education in the Methodist religion. Its support has mainly come from donors who believe in Methodism. In line with this purpose, the college offers a required course in religion, and attendance at chapel is required. Over the years Baldwin-Wallace has warmly welcomed students of all religious backgrounds. Those students, as far as can be ascertained, have never complained until this year about the religious aspects of the curriculum. Baldwin-Wallace has recently broken into the news because the chancellor of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Cleveland has answered an inquiry of a student by saying that Catholics "may not under any circumstances or pretext attend class" of the kind given at the college. The basis of this opinion is the code of canon law and the opinion of moral theologians. As a result of this opinion, a great proportion of the 163 Catholic students are leaving the college and will presumably transfer to Catholic institutions. The college authorities have announced that there will be no change in the requirement of the course. It is not a controversy. It is simply an expression of the right of a religious institution to teach religion and the right of a student to leave the college. But the situation suggests a far greater issue in the foreseeable future. High taxes and the war have not only gravely reduced the capacity of private donors to support colleges of their choice, but have provided reasons for heavy government support for sectarian colleges. The G.I. Bill of Rights has been the culmination of the use of government money for colleges. Sooner or later the issue will rise as to whether a sectarian college will lose its right to teach what it chooses because it receives money collected by taxes from people of all religions. The pressure thus generated may well reduce the pitifully meager amount of religious education now given in colleges. That this will be unfortunate can hardly be debated. Methodists and Catholics alike realize the danger. BY RAYMOND MOLEY The unfortunate nature of this threat to religious education is sharpened by the character of much of the secular teaching now given. I once heard a distinguished teacher of philosophy say to the faculty of an immense institution that the purpose of his courses was to raise doubts in the minds of his students about their early religious beliefs. Consider, therefore, what might come from another war, another rise in taxes and another G.I. bill. Or consider what a continuous $40,000,000,000 budget will do. This is only one way to illustrate the grave danger to all freedoms in a supergovernment, in vast public spending and in greater and greater burdens of taxes. Those who advocate more and more government services often do so in the names of "democracy" and "freedom." They would "channel" all wealth through government. They never seem to realize that at the end of that road is neither democracy nor freedom. It is a place where there may be abstract freedom of choice, but no range of choice—no initiative, no variety, no spiritual adventure. It is a desert of dead uniformity. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.