Creeping Paralysis.
A doctor's life has many grim
moments, but none is so difficult to face as a diagnosis of
the disease called multiple
sclerosis. The doctor knows a
number of things that he can
tell the patient. He can say the
disease attacks the central nervous system with insidious but
relentless effect, that it raises
havoc with the victim's bodily
functions, that it is progressive,
that its cause is unknown and
that no cure has yet been discovered.
We are witnessing a great concentration of public interest in
heart disease, cancer, polio and
other enemies of human beings.
Recent investigation has begun
to bring out, in a few scattered
checks in this country, that
multiple sclerosis is perhaps as
common as polio. In some European neurological institutes, it
is more common than any other
disease affecting the nervous
system.
The MS victim knows it all
began with slight impairments
of motion, that these troubles
spread to the hands, arms and
legs, that vision became tricky
and that the voice from time to
time blurred and thickened. The
victim knows, further, that the
invasion also affects the normal
activities of several internal organs.
The doctor knows that case
histories show that death seldom comes with the disease itself. Flashes of recovery sometimes occur, and improvement
may be noted for some time,
but generally the course of
things moves downward into
helpless immobility.
The attack differs from that
of polio. That disease strikes suddenly and maims, but ordinarily
it is not progressive. The victim, as in the case of F. D. R.,
can settle for what nature
spares. Life, conditioned by limited motion, can go on. In MS,
the enemy stays, the war is
truceless, and the mind must
grapple with the dread of new
attacks. If all the devils had met
in council, they could not have
conceived a greater affliction
than this trick that nature has
produced.
-BY RAYMOND MOLEY
no cure, but there can be helpful treatment in the field of rehabilitation. Henry J. Kaiser Jr.,
himself a victim for the last 13
years, has been arousing interest in the West. Dozens of rehabilitation centers will ultimately be essential in building
even a small measure of help for
the many victims of the disease.
The National Multiple Sclerosis Society, whose office is at the
Academy of Medicine Building
in New York, is the national
center for the fight against MS.
This society has a strong medical advisory committee and is
promoting basic research in the
causes and treatment of the disease. It particularly seeks membership among patients. It wants
to know who and where the
victims are. It is gathering funds
for approved projects of research. And it is promoting the
expansion of public knowledge
about the sinister and growing
scourge.
The state of medical knowledge of MS is about where that
of tuberculosis was before Koch
discovered the tuberculosis bacillus in 1882. Let us hope that 66
years will not pass before this
new plague is brought under control.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.