Food Price Declines and Steel Price Increases
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is quite apparent that the
two political parties in Washington
will find common ground in
opposition to the increase in
steel prices.
For this amazing action of the
steel industry vitally affects the
plans of both parties. It enables
a Democratic stalwart like Sen.
O'Mahoney to point out that it
is "absurd" to talk about tax reduction while "concentrated" industry can make such a levy.
And it endangers the moderate
price decline on which Republicans can justify their refusal
to re-enact controls.
Price declines were already
making large tax reductions
somewhat dangerous. Republican
plans have been based
upon a prospective surplus of
close to $10,000,000,000. This was
calculated on the basis of a real
surplus of $8,000,000,000, plus
$2,000,000,000 slashed from expenditures. Such a surplus
would, according to Republican
leaders, provide something like
$5,000,000,000 for tax reduction.
Even in the House, leaders admitted privately that the Knutson slash would be too much. It
was passed by the House as a
gesture, with the assurance that
the Senate would cut it down.
This was a plain piece of insincerity—routine politics.
The thing the House failed to
take into account, although intelligent members must have
been aware of it, was the relationship between the total national income and the size of the
surplus. It was the amazing rise
of the national income over the
last 18 months which, again and
again, threw the President's estimates into the discard. If the
national income should start to
decline even moderately, this
process would go into reverse.
Republican estimates of a surplus would prove repeatedly to
be too high, and the end might
well be red ink and deficit spending. This could not fail to make
an extremely bad impression at
home and abroad.
Republicans who favor a large
tax cut hope the money saved
by the taxpayer will add to purchasing power which, with lower
prices for food, will go into
manufactured goods. This would
increase production and maintain high employment. Perhaps
such a cycle would be the result
of a tax cut, but its operation
would be spread over a long period and its stimulating effect
would be relatively small.
But higher steel prices throw
clouds over everyone's calculations. It is not the alleged $68,-
000,000 increase in the steel bill
that counts. A healthy economy
could absorb that. It is the psychological effect of such a welladvertised drive for profits upon
all users of steel and upon all
labor unions. The news of the
rise came just at the moment
when many manufacturers who
use steel were hesitating about
pricing. Steel users may now be
impelled to accelerate a pyramiding of prices, because plausible and even sound reasons can
be given for increases. The steel
increase will certainly encourage union leaders to move more
boldly in making demands and
in threatening strikes.
This situation, moreover, gives
useful ammunition to people,
such as Wallace, who have their
doubts about a free economy.
Freedom, they will say, has a
tendency to set off dangerous
fireworks.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.