Professionals Take Over_ _ BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Anyone who fondly believes
that the voice of the people is
going to play a decisive part in
the great battle for the Republican nomination from now on
should take a practical lesson in
Illinois politics, In Illinois, as
in many other States, the voters
have had their last whack. After
the various primaries and local
conventions, professionals take
over.
the fact is that no one was un
can win enough victories in popular primaries to be a truly overwhelming national people's
choice. Stassen has done his
best, but with so many favorite
sons in the field and the disinclination of candidates to enter primaries away from home, the
Minnesota man's field of action
has been limited.
BACK IN 1912
In 1912, when the bloom was
on the primary and bright-eyed
idealists were talking about a
prodigal government coming
home to the paternal people's
roof, Bill Taft and T. R. put on
whirlwind bouts in many States.
This year, such personal engagements will be limited to a very
few States. After the delegates
have been chosen, the public
gets only flitting glimpses of
what is going on. Talk is in
whispers, and nothing is as it
seems. From now on, even the
Stassen people must work with
the tools customary in the trade.
And let it be known that they
are not greenhorns.
Here in Illinois even a most
industrious correspondent can
report little of what will happen.
But he can say a lot about what
may happen. Politics is played
for keeps in Illinois. Outwardly, the battle between the parties
seems fast and furious. It is in
fact governed by Queensberry
rules indigenous to the State.
ILLINOIS IN 1860
This is the State, it should be
recalled, which, in 1860, snatched
the nomination of Lincoln from
New York's practical but overconfident Thurlow Weed and
W. H. Seward. The Illinois boys
were no slouches then. They
are no less astute now, although
they have no star like Lincoln
this year.
The Illinois people have no
great influence in other States,
but they have 56 votes in the
national convention. This group
is a mobile band, a real armored
division that makes up for its
limited size by unlimited maneuverability.
Its leaders keep open the best
of relations with all leading candidates in other States. They can
watch the rising or falling fortunes of the various contenders
with calm and then choose the
exact moment to throw their
strength where it will be best for
Illinois. Their effectiveness will
be measured by their shrewdness.
THEIR CANDIDATE
To be sure, they have a candidate of their own in Gov. Dwight
Green. He is the favorite son,
and he is one of the two or three
strategic State directors in his
own right. The Illinois crowd is
not unaware that, after a lot of
blood, toil, sweat and tears in
Philadelphia, it would be no miracle if the laurel crown finally
rested upon the Green brow.
Green is to be keynoter in Philadelphia, which is regarded as an
excellent opportunity to make or
break a candidate. It is certain
that no effort will be spared to
see that Gov. Green's speech will
do him no harm.
Green is an extremely lucky
man. Since he first entered politics, and especially since his first
election as Governor, in 1940,
fortune has smiled on his efforts. He became a candidate
just as the great Democratic
flood was retreating from the
agricultural areas of the Middle
West. The Kelly machine, straining every effort to turn in a big
majority for Roosevelt, simply
could not summon the strength
to elect every Democrat on the
ticket,
GREEN AND KELLY
The Kelly machine was never
averse to taking half a loaf, especially when the Federal end
of the loaf held the most plums
and raisins. Twice, Green won
as candidate for Governor, while
Roosevelt carried the State.
It is clear now that Green and
his group, after eight years of
power in the State, would be
happy to move into the ampler
pastures of the Federal government in Washington. This might
come through the Vice-Presidency, the Cabinet or the Big Job
itself.
Col. McCormick editorially favors MacArthur. He does not
favor Stassen or Vandenberg. He
opposes Dewey with somewhat
less vigor. But it is certain that
the Republican organization itself is on reasonably friendly
terms with practically all the
possibilities. For, as I suggested
above, Illinois politicians are
practical people.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.