Travel Is So Broadening
When Uncle Pays the Bill
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Sens. Murray, Humphrey, Kefauver, Kilgore, McMahon, Pepper, Sparkman and Thomas are sponsoring a wonderful scheme to end troubles in our economic system. Their plan, embodied in a bill widely circulated prior to introduction, is called by the high-sounding title, "Economic Expansion Act of 1949." It will cost us only $15,000,000,000 a year.
Among the many cosuy panaceas in the bill, too numerous to be enumerated here, is one which challenges special attention. It is a provision that when a man is out of work and wants a job, the government will get it for him. Then the government will lend him the money, without interest, to move to his new location.
★
This is a new one in Federal levels, although it embodies an old idea of uplifters generally, who have always been concerned about people who traipse around looking for work. This provision will let them travel and send the bill to Uncle Sam. To illustrate how undigested the whole "economic expansion" plan really is, let us look at this detail.
All the unemployed worker needs to do is to put himself in the hands of the government. He is already partly dependent, if he is getting unemployment benefits. But under the plan he doesn't have to look around for himself. The government will have to locate the job and presumably get the assent of the worker to take it. This will take time. Then the moving will be undertaken. By this time, the job opportunity may have faded, because such jobs never wait for the uncoiling of bureaucrats' red tape.
★
Such a plan could only apply to common labor, because skilled workers generally want to wait around a while so that they will not lose their chance to return to their old jobs. Moreover, a skilled worker is generally a fairly well anchored citizen, with children in a satisfactory school, with a vested interest in his local union, with money in the bank, with church or fraternal memberships, friends, relatives and other associations.
★
Another factor overlooked by these reformer Senators is that in a depression business does not usually decline by regions, except in the unusual instance where a whole industry is sick or dying. That, of course, happens in periods of general prosperity, too. When business is declining everywhere, there would be little point in trying to move textile workers, for instance, from New England to Detroit, unless they were to give up their skills and become unskilled workers in the presumably still-busy automobile plants.
The moving bureaucracy would have to be careful lest it be forced to move its people all back home again in three or four months. Families so near the border of bankruptcy that they could not afford to move would be heavy risks for the social welfare agencies of the new community. There would be stiff objections of a Federally promoted immigration, because one of the problems always faced by local welfare agencies is the cost of shipping back people who belong elsewhere.
★
During the depression northern cities shipped great numbers of Negroes back to the South where they could live more economically and would require less coal and warm clothing. If the government offered moving expenses everywhere, there might be two streams of workers, moving in opposite directions.
There is also the question of housing. Busy communities—and that is where there are jobs—generally are short on housing.
These are some of the problems involved in what may be called the American displaced-persons plan.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.