The greatest of peacetime
budgets has come and, so far
as the average citizen is con-
cerned, has gone into the dark-
ness of old news. All that will
be remembered are a few high
spots-higher taxes, greater
spending, and questions about
action by Congress.
The entire budget is a colos-
sal document. The President's
summary, long as it is, is only
a giant thumbnail sketch,
trimmed and edited to put the
best possible face on a cloudy
situation. There are very few
people, even among the expert
elite, who will examine the
figures at length. Even in
Congress, where the ultimate
answer must be made, hard-
pressed and busy members will
do little more than glance at
the items with which their own
districts or committees are
concerned.
But our concern with the
budget should be more than a
matter of casual interest. Its
implications are rooted in the
vitals of our personal and public
life. It can or should tell us
how much we must set aside
for taxes, what the nature of
those taxes will be, how heavily
government will restrain or accelerate prices, how competently our nation is being operated and how wise or foolish was our November decision at the polls.
The Federal budget is a far-
reaching factor in all our major
concerns. But in every essential the document itself and the manner of its making defeat our efforts to keep in clear perspective our obligations, our liabilities and the quality of our public service.
VERY FEW CLUES
The budget is so constructed
as to give us no notion of the
ultimate cost of many projects
under way or beginning this
year. There is little or no projection of enterprises which are small now but which will be very large later on. The military estimates are wrapped in mystery. To a degree, this mystery may be necessary to safety, but that the mystery is unnecessarily deepened is an obvious fact.
The timing of the budget is
unfortunate. It should appear
three months later, when the
needs and resources for the
year beginning July 1 can be
seen more clearly.
The Budget Director should
and could be an officer of great
prestige and power. But he is
and has been for many years
merely one of several Presidential assistants. As such, he
can do little to restrain aggressive department heads or to
resolve the eternal conflicts
among departments. Not since
Charles G. Dawes, in the early
Harding regime, has a Budget
Director really been big enough
to realize the purposes of those
who conceived the Budget and
Accounting Act of 1921.
All these defects will be
noted by the Hoover Commission when its reports appear.
But only a powerful public
opinion can assure the adoption
of corrective measures.