Some Monopolies Are Good,
a Labor Spokesman Thinks
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In a speech by James G.
Crowley, announced on an AFL
radio broadcast as "an exposition of the federation's views
on current problems," a very
important admission was made
which seems to have received
less attention than it deserved.
In his broadcast Crowley
frankly admitted the existence
of monopoly by labor unions,
but attempted to describe it as
good. Monopoly by business, he
thinks, is bad.
He said in the course of his
speech: "This growth of industrial monopoly has its counterpart in labor. From small local
isolated unions, labor has moved
to city federations of labor,
State federations of labor, the
alliance of workers of a similar
craft or industry in a number of
cities in a national craft or
industrial union, and finally the
federation of national unions in
the American Federation of Labor and later in the Congress
of Industrial Organizations.
*
"The question, then, are labor unions monopolies, makes
just as little sense in the nation's opinion as the question,
is the Aluminum Corp. of America a monopoly? Both are, in the
nation's opinion, and there's no
sense now in quarreling with it
on the basis of a strict definition. The real point at issue is
not whether they are monopolies but whether they are
harmful to the general welfare."
A dictionary definition of
"monopoly" is:
"The exclusive right, power
or privilege of engaging in a particular traffic or business, especially in political economy;
such control of a special thing,
as a commodity, as enables the
person or persons exercising it
to raise the price of it above
its real value, or above the price
it would bring under competition."
When a business attains an
advantage which the government regards as a monopoly it
is the sworn duty of prosecuting officers to bring legal action.
The weakness in Crowley's
confession and countercharge is
that the figures he lightly
throws about do not prove his
case for business monopoly.
After reciting figures that have
served as political footballs for
years, he says: "A Brookings
Institution economist recently
presented tables showing that
less than 5000—less, I say, than
5000—out of more than 3,000,000 businesses in the United
States employ more than half
of all the workers, meanwhile
gobbling up other small private
businesses at a rate which has
alarmed every disinterested expert who has studied the matter."
★
This is a tricky sentence. Let
us admit the first part of it for
the sake of argument. But the
second part is not a consequence
of the Brookings figure. It is
flatly untrue. In 20 years there
has been no tendency for the
ratio of small and large businesses to change. Between 1939
and 1946 small manufacturing
corporations grew at a greater
rate than did large corporations.
The authority for that is the
U.S. Department of Commerce.
The basis of study was a comparison of the assets, working
capital, sales and profits of the
200 largest corporations as
against 800 smaller ones.
Big businesses, moreover, pay
Crowley's workers much better than smaller ones. This
would obliterate another careless remark, attributed to Sen.
O'Mahoney, that "we are producing a proletariat by the concentration of economic power."
If this is true, the new proletariat is a mighty powerful
one.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.