Atty. Gen. Tom Clark is a
loyal Texan, which means a
lot in his proud State. He is
also a loyal member of President Truman's Cabinet, which
means a lot to Tom Clark. In
the latter role it becomes his
duty to represent the government before the Supreme Court
in support of a petition to file
suit against Texas and Louisiana for recognition of the
Federal government's paramount right to the offshore
lands of those two States.
Two years ago, Clark filed and argued a similar suit
against California and won a
favorable decision. This one,
however, involves not only the
uncomfortable task of opposing the organized sentiment of
his native State, but of confronting the legal claims of
Texas, which are undoubtedly
much stronger than those of
any other tidewater State.
CLARK'S EXCUSE
Whenever Clark returns to
Texas he is met by the aggressive attitude of Gov. Jester,
of Price Daniel, Attorney General of the State, of the predominant editorial opinion of
the press and of other articulate forces.
Clark answers by pointing
out that he is merely performing his duty to his client, the
United States of America, the
President thereof, the 48 States
and Territories of the Union.
That, however, does not mitigate the strength of the language of Texans who are fighting
the United States in this
proceeding.
Gov. Jester said recently: "If
the Attorney General of the
United States files this suit
against Texas for its submerged
lands in the Gulf, he is preempting the authority of the
Congress to affirm or break annexation agreements made with
Texas when it entered the
Union. If the Federal government can nationalize the land,
minerals and other things along
the coast of the State, it can
nationalize them in the interior."
NOT PUBLISHABLE
Atty. Gen. Daniel has said
that the United States would
not give this kind of treatment
to an enemy nation.
The Texas Land Commissioner, Bascom Giles, said that his
opinion of this matter is "not
publishable."
In addition to the general contention of all tidewater States
that the States own the resources of the submerged land,
Texas has another claim. The
Republic of Texas, prior to admission in 1845, set its boundaries by act of its Congress
three marine leagues into the
Gulf of Mexico.
When Texas was admitted into
the Union, the Congress of
the United States agreed that
she should retain title to this
land, including bays, rivers and
the bed of the Gulf adjoining the
State. Later, the Legislature of
Texas by law extended that
boundary 65 miles.
THREE LEAGUES?
There is considerable dispute
about the exact mileage involved in "three marine
leagues." Some say 101½ miles;
others claim more. But in any
event, they include submerged
land in which valuable oil and
gas are located and which can
conceivably be profitably extracted.
Private oil companies, except
for the matter of State pride
and fear of Federal control, are
not primarily involved in this
fight. They must in any case
pay royalties to either State or
Federal government.
Meanwhile, tideland States,
through their representatives
in Congress, are pressing a bill
to quitclaim these lands to the
States. Such a bill might pass,
but probably could not survive
a Presidential veto.
Now everyone is waiting to
see what the court does in the
hearings shortly to be held.