Acheson Nomination Means
Truman Will Be the Boss
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Dean Acheson, the President's choice for Secretary of State, has many qualifications for the job. He is an able lawyer. He makes a good speech. He is amiable, likable and gracious. He has a good record of experience in the State Department.
But against the background of the office to which he has been named and the men who have filled the job in our history, he is not a strong choice. This writer has never heard those who knew him best in the Harvard Law School or in the practice of law call him a strong man. He is not distinguished for broad imagination or for confident force of opinion.
Acheson's most potent early sponsor was Felix Frankfurter, then a professor at Harvard. Because of that, Acheson was chosen for the prize post of secretary to Justice Brandeis. In 1933, presumably again sponsored by Frankfurter, he was appointed by Roosevelt as Undersecretary of the Treasury under Will Woodin. Acheson has, in the years between his spells of public service, served in a law firm headed by distinguished men. In short, his entire career has been under the shadow of strong men whom he has faithfully served. He has never had to determine policy on his own.
In 1933 his brief months in the Treasury were not happy. Woodin, the Secretary, was a businessman and a conservative. Roosevelt was busy with experimentation. The most serious issue arose late that year, when the President decided to try Prof. Warren's gold-buying scheme. Acheson, torn between loyalty to Woodin and the will of Roosevelt, suffered Promethean agony. When Woodin decided to retire, Acheson went, too, and Morgenthau took over.
LIKE ROOSEVELT
All this is not written to predict disaster in foreign relations. It is intended to point up the fact that Truman has decided to be his own Secretary of State and has chosen a faithful and agreeable administrator and spokesman for his policies. He has apparently decided to go on without his generals.
In this kind of appointment Truman is following the tradition of Wilson and Roosevelt. Wilson, after the resignation of Bryan, depended on Secretaries of State who were not dominant figures, but who were technically able administrators of Presidential policies. Roosevelt selected Cordell Hull because he liked him and felt that he would not be difficult to direct. Hull proved to be more self-willed than was expected, and so Roosevelt by-passed him through innumerable special assignments to others.
IN THE TRADITION
Truman is thus squarely in recent Democratic tradition. He has abandoned the tradition in which Presidents selected such sizable men as Seward, Blaine, Hay, Root and Hughes and then gave them wide discretion.
The talk about Acheson's attitude toward Russia cannot be taken seriously. In the Treasury and later in the State Department he brought in a good many young men, mostly lawyers from Harvard. Among them were some who had Leftish tendencies. In his new post Acheson will be just as tough with Russia as the President wants him to be—no less and no more. The answer to our Russian attitude lies with the President alone.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.