Commies' Conviction Held
Basis for Outlawing Party
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Someone said at the conclusion of the Communists' trial in
New York that Judge Harold R.
Medina had completed his own
prison term at hard labor, with
a day off for his own good behavior.
For the good Judge has probably suffered a much more painful
period of confinement than will any of the guilty defendants.
And there is still the chance that they will suffer nothing.
For nine months, which included the hottest New York
summer in years, Medina matched his patience, self-restraint and intelligence against
a noisy, contemptuous gang of defendants, lawyers and sympathizers whose sole mission
in life is to incite violence, chaos and revolt against the law.
At one moment in the heat of summer, the Judge says, he was
afraid that he had reached the end of his corporeal powers and took an hour or so off for
recuperation. But a boundless energy, well known to the thousands of law students who
studied under Medina at the Columbia Law School in past years, carried him through.
★
When the trial started last January it was noted in this column that Medina would
emerge from this ordeal as a truly notable public figure. His great resources were well
known to his faculty associates at Columbia and to the bar in New York for years.
Among those who passed through the school while he was teaching there were two
young men named Thomas E. Dewey and William O. Douglas. Medina used his excess energy, after his formal Columbia
teaching and his large law practice, for a series of short courses for students preparing
for bar examinations. These were held in a large auditorium downtown and in a few weeks
in overtime hours Medina summed up, clarified and made unforgettable all that the students had studied in three
years.
The Communists' lawyers were meeting an intellectual force upon which they had
never schemed. Their efforts to drive this Judge into an indiscretion or error failed. And,
as a final blow, they received well-earned prison terms for undisguised contempt.
★
The deaths of Justices Murphy and Rutledge greatly increase the chance that the
Smith Act, upon which this prosecution rested, will be upheld by the Supreme Court. In
the famous Schneiderman case in 1942 Justice Murphy rendered a decision on facts similar
to those in this case, although a different law was involved. Murphy's sentiments seemed to
find no great harm and no incitement to force and violence in the activities of a man who
had held high position in the Communist Party. The current case has found otherwise.
It has been shown to the satisfaction of the jurors and, it may be added, to every other
American of good sense who followed the case, that the Communist Party is in reality
a conspiracy to overthrow the government by force and violence.
It remains now for States, under this interpretation of the law, to outlaw the party. It has
no rightful place on the ballot and it should not enjoy the facilities and freedom of our
electoral system to promote its sinister designs.
It is silly to fear, as do some so-called liberals, that to outlaw the party would drive it
underground. Its evil was, until this trial, already underground. It can now be dealt
with in the open, punished and extinguished.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.