Berlin Accord
Shows New Men
Have Something
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

When the new conferences on
Berlin began some time ago this
country scarcely knew the participants, Philip C. Jessup and
Jacob A. Malik. Their success
shows the value of new faces
in an old picture. These two
comparative newcomers in big-
time diplomacy deserve the acclaim of half the world.

In the weary stalemate of the
last year or two, the public has
become somewhat tired of people who enter endless conferences, only to return empty-
handed. Americans have certainly had enough of the stubborn, provocative manner of
Molotov, Vishinsky and Gromy-
ko. And confidence in American negotiators has rapidly
declined. The old hands have
taken too many positions from
which pride and prestige prohibited retreat.

PROTEGE OF ROOT
The American Ambassador-
at-Large and delegate to the
United Nations, Philip C. Jessup, is, however, no inexperienced figure in diplomacy. He
has been an occasional adviser
and helper to the State Department for 20 years. The late
Elihu Root took him as an assistant to the Court of International Justice in 1929. Root
conceived such admiration for
the young lawyer that he designated him as his biographer,
and the result was a fine two-
volume life of the great American Secretary of State.

The professorship in international law held by Jessup at Columbia has traditionally been
dedicated not only to teaching
and scholarship, but to public
service as well. Twenty-five
years ago John Bassett Moore,
who had held that post for many
years, decided to retire. The
selection of a man who might
ultimately succeed him was not
easy, for Moore was the most
distinguished international lawyer of his time.

Members of the faculty who
were concerned with the appointment found some scholarly articles by Jessup that
showed great promise, and he
was selected. Since then he has
risen through the academic
grades to the position he now
holds.

CAREER MAN MALIK
Jessup, whose father, Henry
W. Jessup, was a distinguished
member of the New York bar,
is sufficiently a scholar to disdain the arts of propaganda.
While many teachers of international law in this country
have joined so many committees
and do-good organizations that
they have had little time for
calm reflection, Jessup has quietly worked at his trade as professor, adviser, teacher and lawyer. He has a pleasant, frank
manner, with a hard sense of
reality. He never shouts, threatens or bluffs. He has always
been well liked by his associates at Columbia. In political
matters he is mildly conservative.

Like Jessup, Malik seems to
have risen in the confidence of
his government because of his
broad and expert knowledge of
international law and practice.
He has been a career man with
sufficient ability and initiative
to avoid bureaucratic sclerosis.
Together, these two men
have brushed aside the irrelevancies and got down to the
essential of the Berlin problem.
Having succeeded in convincing their governments of the
wisdom of a settlement, they
will be powerful factors in the
long negotiations that lie beyond Berlin.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.