Tourists Are
Basic to Our
Way of Life
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Viewed in broad perspective,
the major economic problem of
California is not unlike that of
England and some of the continental European countries.
Its level of prosperity must depend upon its capacity to maintain a balance between inflow-
ing and outflowing goods and services and dollars.
A lot of dollars must go out for Federal taxes, for interest and dividends on the great investments made here by other parts of the nation, and for the purchase of merchandise and raw materials that California cannot produce.
Such a balance cannot be enforced by tariffs, currency control and austerity, as it can be in an independent country. It must be done by vigorous exploitation of what California has to sell.
*
The All-Year Club of Southern California has compiled some figures which show this problem vividly and which must be surprising to people elsewhere who are unfamiliar with the special nature of California's economy.
The largest source of new money flowing into the State is the aircraft industry, which in 1948 brought in nearly $500,000,000.
Next came tourist spending of more than $450,000,000.
Petroleum brought something more than $400,000,000.
Motion-picture production, regarded in some quarters as California's chief industry, brought in $180,000,000—less than half the income of the leaders. After that came wearing apparel, citrus fruits and furniture.
Tourist money, which ranks so high, flows with tremendous rapidity into almost every aspect of the economy. Most of it goes for food. After food come living accommodations, gasoline, oil and auto service, clothing, public utilities, theater and other forms of recreation, drugs, professional services and laundry and cleaning.
As the All-Year Club notes, all this is based on California's greatest resource, which is climate.
*
The similarity between California's problems and those of an independent nation has often been noted. Sixty years ago, James Bryce, in his "American Commonwealth," said that of all our States California had the greatest likeness to an independent nation.
If America had been settled as was Europe, California might well have been a separate country with its own language, perhaps with its established church, its dynasties, treaties and military force.
The barren desert, which this reporter is now crossing eastward, is wider than any of the natural barriers which separate European civilizations—the English Channel, the Pyrenees or the Carpathians. The external markets for California's goods are for the most part nearly 2000 miles away.
The remarkable thing is that since the beginning of the war California has absorbed an immense population and is still finding employment for its millions. That is because it provides such an immense market in itself and, in addition, because it increasingly attracts such an army of tourists.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.