Is Vaughan a Political Agent
or Is He an Army Officer?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The retirement of Maj. Gen.
Alden H. Waitt, chief of the
Army Chemical Corps, and the
reinstatement of Maj. Gen. Her-
man Feldman, Quartermaster
General, by the Secretary of the
Army, with severe reprimands
in both cases, brings into focus
the case of Maj. Gen. Harry H
Vaughan, military aide to the
President. It should make it
possible for the President, as
well as for the Senatorial investigators of Vaughan and his
actions, to brush away irrelevant
vanities and come to the first
and most important issue in the
whole affair.
The point is the injury done
to the supposedly nonpolitical
armed services by the spectacle
of a major general, in the full
panoply and perquisites of the
Army and with the additional
gold braid of an aide to the
Commander in Chief, engaged in
the sort of monkey business
that is common and unavoidable in political headquarters.
*
I say "common and unavoidable" because dealing out favors
and receiving campaign contributions are ordinary practice in
the political ranges of Presidential assistants. And so long as
the President is head of his
party, the practice is unavoidable.
When the late Harry Hopkins
was a Presidential intimate, he
dabbled one day in military policy at home and abroad; the
next, in handling things at a
Democratic convention. As had
been his practice for years,
Hopkins had a finger in many
political pies. But Hopkins was
a civilian, and the Secretaries
of War and Navy were able to
maintain the proprieties of their
services and, if they chose—and
they usually did so choose—they
could reject political approaches.
Hopkins was known not as
the military arm of the Commander in Chief, but as the
intimate of the elected President and party leader. If the President had been indiscreet enough
to offer to make Hopkins a
general or an admiral, it is likely that even Hopkins would
have recognized the suggestion
as politically foolish and generally bad for the dignity of the
armed services. Certainly, it
would have raised a terrific public uproar. It might even have
caused the resignation of such
a War Secretary as Stimson.
Vaughan has admitted a
species of activity which describes a political manager.
Assuming that he did not profit
himself, his conduct has certainly been what Secretary
Gray, in reprimanding Waitt
and Feldman, termed "irregular." Presumably, "irregular"
means inconsistent with the
conduct of a military officer.
*
If Secretary Gray is to be consistent, he will require Vaughan
either to turn in his uniform,
thus freeing him to serve as a
political assistant to Harry S.
Truman, chief of the Democratic
Party, or he will require him to
take his place in some protected
spot—far from the temptations
of the White House—as an
Army officer.
Only in that way can another
accumulation of political incidents be prevented and the
prestige of the armed services
preserved. The President, the
Secretary of Defense and the
Secretary of the Army owe that
to the thousands of professional
officers who have been taught to
regard their calling as honorable, indispensable and high
above the vicissitudes of
politics.
The case of Vaughan is only
one of many that suggest that
the President regards the Army
much as the amiable boss of a
city used to regard the police—
as a necessary service which can
be borrowed from time to time
as uniformed display for political rallies or personal appearances.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.