Law of Diminishing Returns
as It Operates With Taxes
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
One of the many strange sayings attributed to the late Justice Holmes by his voluble admirers is: "I like to pay taxes." If, as the nation finishes filing its returns today, anyone is saying that, he, too, must be hidden in the Supreme Court. Certainly no one is saying any such thing publicly. People are saying this thing is beginning to hurt and hurt badly. For in this year of our Lord and in the reign of Truman, the American taxpayer is breaking many records in giving, since to the great Federal "take" can be added new and unprecedented State and local tax increases.
HOW MUCH HIGHER?
It may be idle to speculate on how much higher our government may want to raise taxes. Bureaucracy will never lose its appetite for money, and some sectors of the public will never stop voting for new benefits. But it is not idle to speculate on how much higher our tax rates can rise before a law of diminishing returns sets in. We may be in that region right now. Good European economists have calculated that the point of diminishing returns is reached shortly after the tax returns exceed 25% of the total national income. In wartime the ratio can be higher, if the emergency is truly felt by the people. In 1945 Fred Vinson, then Secretary of the Treasury, ventured the opinion that 25% of the national income was all that could be exacted in taxes.
A $65,000,000,000 TOTAL
The total planned expenditures of our governments—Federal, State and local—for the next fiscal year amount to something like $65,000,000,000, which is almost one-third of our current national income. If the President has his way, the Federal bill will be from 2 to 4% higher, and if some of the pending pieces of welfare legislation pass Congress, the increase next year will be still higher. Among the nations of Europe, England seems to have established the highest degree of tax loyalty. From time to time in the London Times there have appeared over the years acknowledgments from the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the receipt of "conscience money," meaning sums sent in by people who first cheated John Bull and then found their slumbers disturbed because of their betrayal of their fellow citizens. No such insomnia seems to disturb the French, where evasion has been a fine art for centuries and in some regions and times has reached 100%.
WAIT AND SEE
In the Scandinavian countries, where everyone knows everybody's business, it is not easy to evade taxes. In Switzerland thrift seems to have overwhelmed curiosity. In Zurich the city published a large book purporting to show the tax paid by every citizen in the hope of discouraging tax evasion. A friend of mine saw this book displayed in a store with a poster saying "the fairy stories of Zurich." Perhaps the American people have maintained their morality better than those of other nations. There are American pharisees who have been saying this for generations. But we shall see how this reputation holds up under the burdens to come.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.