Surpluses May Be Solved
by Using Grain for Fuel
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The farmer's ancient enemy,
a surplus, seems just around
the corner. And its probable
consequences have revived one
of the great dreams of modern
science—the idea of fuel from
grain.
The "world's hunger" theme
is going into the discard now.
The surplus and what to do
about it are occupying the
minds of farm leaders. Even our
most pessimistic official agency,
the Office of Foreign Agricultural
Relations of the Department
of Agriculture, now announces
that the food volume of foreign
nations taken collectively is
very near prewar standards.
Our own prospective food production is, of course, much
higher. Acreage has been enormously increased and the farmer, baited by government inducements, has exploited his
acres to the full.
FUEL ALCOHOL
All this gives a big incentive
to the exploitation of the revival of the chemist's dream of
grain-for-alcohol-for-fuel.
Some advocates nine years
ago suggested that fuel alcohol
might be substituted for as
much as 10% of our gasoline
consumption. The petroleum
industry offered two arguments
against this idea: first, that
grain alcohol would be excessively expensive and, second,
that such extensive motor adaptations would be required that
the cost would be prohibitive.
The war, of course, ended the
argument temporarily.
The annual report of the
President's economic advisors
gives the following ratios for
the nation's consumption of
fuel and power: More than one-
half from coal; one-third from
oil; one-seventh from natural
gas; and 4% from hydroelectric-
tricity.
ICKES WAS WRONG
The outcries, three years
ago, from Petroleum Administrator Harold Ickes about the
overexploitation of petroleum
reserves seem now to have
been unfounded. Despite greatly increasing oil consumption,
the oil industry has opened up
new resources in the tidelands
and elsewhere which seem to be
winning the race. However,
the threat of war and unstable
conditions in the Near East
might again change the trend.
On the other hand, atomic power
lurks in the shadows of possibility.
A new item for the chemists
comes from the Department
of Agriculture. Dr. E. C.
Hilbert, chief of the Department's Agricultural and Industrial Chemistry Bureau, has reported some new tests and has
claimed a patent for a new alcohol injection device. It seems
that new technical possibilities
are opened up when alcohol is
added to the process of making
high octane gasoline. This gasoline, hitherto largely confined
to aircraft, is now on its way
to use in auto and truck motors.
IMPROVED MILEAGE
The press quotes Hilbert as
saying that "the present cost
of installations of such a device
would be $30 to $40 and that
one gallon of alcohol is all that
is needed for 500 miles." He is
quoted further as saying that
a passenger car fed with 98%
low-grade gasoline and 2% alcohol would operate just as well
as if fed with high-test gasoline.
Hilbert's statements seem to
have made an impression on his
audience in the petroleum conference of farmer co-operatives.
He seems further to have favorably impressed his boss, Secretary Brannan, who is struggling with the surplus problem
and increased demands for support prices.
If ever an idea seemed admirably designed to kill several
birds with one stone, it is this.
The effectiveness of the stone,
however, is still to be tested.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.