California-Arizona Battle
Involves a Basic Economy
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
One of the many issues which
an early adjournment of Congress will leave unsettled will
be the bitter conflict between
California and Arizona.
This issue comes down to a
simple question. Shall the
United States, at an expense of
$750,000,000, put on land for a
future population water which
is needed for a land whose millions are already living? And
shall this be done despite the
fact that those people have contractual rights to that water and
only ask that the Supreme
Court pass upon those rights?
This issue concerns not merely the two States involved, but
all the States where taxpayers
are struggling to carry the
enormous expenses of the Federal government.
The so-called Central Valley
Project in Arizona involves
building a new dam on the
Colorado River above the Hoover
Dam, a great pump lift to
raise water nearly a thousand
feet, aqueducts and canals to
transport water 315 miles and,
later, an 80-mile tunnel. The pot
of gold at the end of the rainbow of Federal money would
be some new arable land for
ordinary crops which will probably only add to a mounting
national surplus.
Considering the size of this
demand and the lack of proof of
necessity, it is remarkable that
it has progressed so far in Congress. The President through
his Budget Director disclaimed
interest in the project. The Secretary of the Army doubted its
value. And the Secretary of
the Interior advised the Senate
a year ago that, if the claims
of California were allowed,
there would be no available
water for the project.
The mystery of the vitality of
the project is explained by the
interest of Arizona's active and
experienced Sens. Hayden and
McFarland. Hayden is in an
excellent position to promote it,
for he is not only Chairman
of the Senate Committee on
Rules, but ranks next to the
Chairman of the Appropriations
Committee. The California Senators have no such positions of
power and influence.
California's claims are based
on long-standing contracts with
the Federal government, calling
for the delivery of specified
amounts of water from the
Colorado River. The State is
not asking for more than these
contracts specify. All this contract water is not yet being
used, but there is tremendous
need for increasing amounts to
supply the great population of
the southern part of the State.
Under the Constitution, California cannot sue until Congress
has given its approval. California and Nevada members have
introduced resolutions for this
purpose, but there has been no
action on them.
Instead, through a tricky device, the Senate Interior Affairs
Committee reported out a bill
which tied the Arizona project
to the right of California to go
to the court. If passed, this
would provide the first step toward the vast Arizona project
to go ahead, even if the Supreme
Court should decide favorably
upon the California claims. In
such a case, a miracle would be
required to produce the necessary water.
That a great national issue of
economy is involved is shown
by the fact that the amount
needed to water this desert is
almost as great as has been
spent in 11 years on all reclamation projects in 17 Western
States. It would seem that we
might well live with our deserts
a while until we make sure
that there is enough money for
more pressing human needs.