N.Y. Republicans Could
Really Make Some Issues
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The most prominent and significant test of strength of the present year will be the battle for a Senatorship in the State of New York.
To fill the seat vacated by Sen. Wagner, two eminent and capable men have been selected—former Gov. Herbert Lehman and temporary Sen. John Foster Dulles. Lehman is running as a professed Democrat with the support of the so-called Liberal Party, a splinter organization which has repudiated Marcantonio’s left-wing American Labor Party.
★
It will be a fairly clean-cut contest between two regular members of the two major parties—two men of character and experience who will observe all the civilized amenities.
There should be a fine opportunity on both sides to draw the specifications of what it is that distinguishes the two parties in this country. However, it is not clear from the preliminary statements of the candidates that this will be done.
★
Dulles has started his campaign with a statement saying that in the field of foreign relations he favors continuing the bipartisan policy of the past several years. On domestic issues he deplores the drift toward “statism.” He says that when a state assumes the almost total responsibility for public welfare, initiative is destroyed and liberty is imperiled. Lehman answers that he believes the government should seek at all times a broader field for social justice and an opportunity for all “groups.” Then he indicates a number of “humane”—a word on which New York Democrats have lived for 30 years—objectives, such as care of the needy, etc.
★
So far so good. Dulles would go slow in pushing the state into private concerns. Lehman would find new uses for the state.
On that basis, a beautiful academic debate could be waged. Definitions of “statism” would be looked up by Lehman.
Dulles would assert that he is just as “humane” as anybody else. And so forth. Presently the audience would yawn and turn the radio dial for lighter fare. We would be hearing the old records of 1940, 1944 and 1948.
All of which suggests that the Republican Party must find new and fresh issues, if it is ever to get back into effective power.
★
Perhaps a few specifications are in order:
First, let Republicans demand that full efficiency be required before additional money is added to our Federal expenditures. Point up failures in the plain business of running the government, the poor appointments of Truman, the lack of concern about waste and duplication. In all this there are plenty of specific examples.
Second, Republicans could draw a sharp issue on the balanced budget. Is it, as a considerable number of Fair Dealers believe, a positive benefit to finance new state enterprises with red ink? Or is it desirable to defer new projects until European aid and American armament cost less?
Third, let Republicans draw the specifications of a welfare state in terms of what Truman has proposed or endorsed. The Brannan farm plan, the Murray industrial aid bill, the Truman government medicine bill, the many autocratic water power projects and the vague plan to develop undeveloped foreign countries—these and other Fair Deal proposals spell out the welfare state.
Fourth, let them specifically, not generally, describe how the accumulation of such paternalistic measures limits and threatens personal freedom. This can be described in terms understandable to the man in the street.
★
Republican Presidential candidates in three successive campaigns have depended upon generalities. They have failed. Candidate Dulles and others will fail likewise, unless they spell out their case.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.