Steel Strike Is Basically
a Fight for a Principle
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
▲ man made the suggestion last week that the present steel tie-
up is the biggest strike for the smallest cause in history. Reckoned
in dollars, cents and prospective returns, that is true. But the steel
companies are fighting for a principle-as are the unions.
On the material side, the amounts at issue are small. The Tru-
man board recommended 4 cents an hour for insurance, which
the conmpanies grant provided the men pay in about half as much
or less. This amount, however, will never provide adequate pen-
sions, if we assume that those receiving the pensions are the ones
who are working now.
The companies maintain the principle that to make the pensions
something more than token payments in old age both sides
should contribute. They also maintain that individuals still have
a responsibility for their own future. The Murray principle
seems to be that, since the board made a recommendation, the
unions should get nothing less.
★
★
But in the Murray calculations, there is something other than
his principle. If he gets a small noncontributing amount from
the companies he will have committed them to something that
will be the basis of new demands for years to come. He knows
that 4 or 6 or 8 cents an hour will never buy a decent pen-
sion, even if the dollar should remain at its present value in
goods. Once, however, the companies abandon their principle,
the way will be open to load upon the consuming public all the
increases that future inflation may demand. People will be
hearing about pensions long after those of us now living shall
have passed beyond all need of earthly benefits.
Theoretically, the unions seem to be resting great faith in the
future value of the dollar. The whole labor movement is betting
upon a dollar value of 20 or 25 years hence, when the man of me-
dian age in steel will be reaching retirement age. This assumes
that most median men, if living, will be working for the same
steel company, and that is an utterly unwarranted assumption.
Of course, the dollar did stay put for a long time. In 1910 it
bought nearly as much as it did in 1800-leaving out of consid-
eration the temporary war inflations. In the war of 1812 prices
rose, and then resumed their former level by 1820. They remained
fairly stable until 1860. But by 1880, they were back at the
old level, until World War I started in 1914. Then they fell during
the 1920s until, in 1931, they were back to the level of Wash-
ington's administration.
★
★
Since then we all know what happened. It is a melancholy
memory now that F. D. R. once set the 1926 price level as his
goal. That was approximately the level of 1816 and 1870 and
about three-fifths of present prices. No one knows what the price
level will be for the median-age people of today in 1975.
It would be naive to doubt that the Truman administration is
promoting this company pension business to take the pension
heat off the government and to provide nice trust funds every-
where as a rosy market for government bonds. The Treasury
could ask for no better outlet. It might make it less necessary
to think up new stunts-such as mobilized cartoonists-to sell
bonds to the man in the street.
In any event, the welfare state rolls on. Briefly defined, that
means a nation where more and more become dependent on fewer
and fewer.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.