The British Movie Fiasco
Has a Moral for Truman
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Among the many glaring examples of the deadly effect of government intervention in business, the disaster that has overtaken British film production is the most recent and the most colorful.
J. Arthur Rank, who made a fortune in milling and is now head of the dominant British film organization, has laid the cards on the table for everybody, including his government, to see. His Odeon Theater Co., which is the operating end of the once-great Rank organization, was in the red this year, to June 25, to the tune of £3,528,615. In a comparable period last year the profit was £179,691. Only heroic measures such as dipping into reserves and personal contributions by Rank have brought this year's losses down. But such remedies cannot, of course, be repeated.
The silly device of the British government of fixing quotas—in reality, commands to an industry to produce and thus reduce the consumption of American goods—has flopped. The masterminds in the Socialist government told British film producers to make 75 feature films a year for British theaters, of which half were to come from Rank studios. Rank now says that under the straitened conditions of his company he can make only six to 10 films in the first half of 1950. Thus, Socialism proposes but inexorable economic law disposes.
To bolster production, the Socialists attempted, as our own President Truman proposed in steel, to bring about production by government subsidies. That has flopped, too.
And now, like all politicians in a fix, the government has a committee at work to see what is wrong and what can be done.
If you don't dare or you don't know, appoint a committee! British film producers have been able to produce a few truly great pictures. But "Hamlet" and "The Red Shoes" do not grow in every lot. Such films attract many dollars from the United States. There has been eager acceptance of good British films by American exhibitors because American output is none too attractive. But British producers simply do not have enough talent or ideas to supply the broad demand of theatergoers in Britain or the United States.
Rank himself admits this. He says that British pictures under government pressure have not generally been good pictures. He has been compelled to spread his materials so thin that mediocrity has resulted. And now, to save himself, he must cut back to the few that he really thinks he can do.
The basic fact is that people here and abroad want to see American pictures. They will pay money to see them, and they will not go to see their own productions, even under the whip of Socialistic governments. Economic laws break Socialist edicts. The embargo which American companies imposed from August, 1947, to June, 1948, as a protest against the restrictions of the Socialist government was a dire blow to British theaters.
A free market in films would probably restrict British production to a small business, but it would be a great benefit to British exhibitors and to the British people.
When will we realize that our own government intervention in a free economy will ultimately follow the British pattern?
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.