Why Collective Bargaining
Should Not Fix Pensions
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
During the current strikes a
good many people are seriously
asking whether pensions are,
after all, an appropriate subject
for collective bargaining.
The reasons why collective
bargaining by management and
labor is no solution for pensions
are numerous and important.
One is that a principle is involved
which, once agreed upon, goes
far beyond the terms of a one or
two-year contract. It involves
policies which must be carried on
by future union leaders and
managers, long after Murray and
Fairless are in their graves. The
steel companies are called upon to
mortgage a long future. That is
not the case when wages and hours
are determined by agreement.
Another point is that the pension
demand, if agreed to, involves
many more interests than those of
the bargaining parties. It is a
charge upon a long series of
consumers. It is, in effect, a
continuing tax upon the whole
economy, extending far beyond
the term for which excise taxes
are levied. In fairness, all those
who pay should be parties to the
bargain. But the practical
difficulties involved make such
general agreement out of the
question. This point is theoretical
but nevertheless important.
*
In such cases where a generality
of interests is involved, government
becomes the appropriate representative
of the public interest. But this
government—the Truman administration—has
long since surrendered its
trusteeship of the public interest.
It has allied itself with one party to
the dispute. The interests of politics
have supplanted the constitutional
ideal of the general welfare. This
point, too, is theoretical but deeply
significant.
On another and most important
side the government has a responsibility.
This proposed pension—all private
pension plans—must be considered in
relation to all government pension
systems and plans, Federal and
State. Ultimately, there must be
some coordination, some equalization
in the name of justice. For, otherwise,
we shall build a colossally powerful
aristocracy of pensioners who draw
privileged benefits merely because
they happen to be employed in trades
and industries with the power to
throttle the whole economy with
strikes.
Finally, in a pension system the
sacredly important issue of trusteeship
is profoundly important. Under
long-established and wholly wise
tradition, when values are involved
which extend beyond the lifetime of
those who create such values, a trustee
is required—independent of beneficiaries
and benefactors. They must see that the
terms of the bequest, grant or benefit
are honestly and rigorously preserved
and enforced. The Lewis welfare scheme
makes only a feeble gesture in that
direction. Actually, the Lewis
beneficiaries are the trustees, a travesty
of trusteeship.
*
Are these new accumulations to be
administered by the companies collectively
or individually? By the unions and companies
jointly or by someone else? If by unions,
what is their responsibility? The only real
requirement that they be financially
responsible is in the Taft-Hartley Law,
which the Truman government and the unions
are howling to repeal.
If, under joint duress by government
and unions, the companies agree to a plan
which they know to be a fraud, how can
they in conscience participate in its
management? They know, and every person
who can use a pencil must know, that an
adequate pension cannot be bought with a
few cents an hour. What honest man could
act as trustee for “pie in the sky”?
Such issues are not fit subjects for
collective bargaining under duress.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.