Government Steel Proposal
Is Dying in the Face of Facts
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The collective opinion of businessmen whom this reporter has seen on a trip through the Middle West and as far south as Houston is that the least-likely-to-succeed of President Truman's January brain children is the idea of putting the government into the steel business.

In fact, that child is dying right now of a combination of malnutrition and prenatal malformation. The shortages of which the President complained in January are rapidly disappearing, and a full discussion of the subject has revealed the essential fallacy of the whole idea.

A LEFT-WING IDEA

The President was merely adopting an old thesis which has had wide currency among left-wingers for years and adding thereto a threat of nationalization. It has been a part of the New Deal religion that the steel business operates on a principle of high prices induced by scarcity based upon semi-monopoly.

The precise plan suggested by President Truman was launched in a speech early in December by C. Girard Davidson, Assistant Secretary of the Interior. Davidson proposed that the Reconstruction Finance Corp. be authorized to grant loans for expansion to steel companies and, presumably, to people eager to go into the business. And in case these loans were not taken, a series of government plants would be launched.

A PROFESSOR'S ANSWER

Thus, the steel business was told either to accept loans for a purpose which they regarded as unnecessary or dangerous, or to meet competition financed out of taxpayers' money.

The debate which followed this proposal has been well summarized by Prof. Marvin Barloon in the March Harvard Business Survey Review. In the course of this judicial and highly informative article, the important point is made that, aside from the immensely important financial burden of such a scheme and the consequences that might be expected from it, there is the still more important question of timing. Barloon says that even if it were to be conceded that there is need for steel beyond the present capacity of the business, a government project now would be too late as well as too early.

. It is too late to meet the problems described by the critics of the steel industry in 1947 and 1948, because the inflation then experienced has run its course. Moreover, if the government is to go into the business or even to force private manufacturers to expand, we cannot tell yet where such new plants should be built.

Thus, the President's proposal comes down to the building of a new industry at an indeterminate but fabulous cost, at a place that no one can yet determine, and for a need that cannot effectively be justified.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.