U.S. Tax Revision Essential
to Stem Tide of Socialism
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
During these few weeks
while Congress is silent, it
might be well for taxpayers to
voice the view to home-coming
members that their biggest job
for 1950 is the beginning, at
least, of a rational revision of
Federal taxation.
It should not require a long
study to correct even a few of
the loopholes that are depress-
ing revenues and some of the
inequities that are throttling
productive enterprise.
Perhaps the segment of Con-
gress that is responsive to President Truman's wish that we increase these tax injustices by raising the present schedules can and will frustrate any reform. But other elements in Congress can well consider raising the issue and can, if they fail, carry the case to the voters in next year's election.
★
For the real destroyer of our way of government and life is taxation. "The power to tax is the power to destroy." If a group entrusted with the power of government were intent upon imposing Socialism it could find no more effective means toward that end than taxation. Noah M. Mason, who has not only capably represented the 15th Illinois District in Congress for some years but is a close student of social and economic affairs, presented a bill in the recent session to close several loopholes in present laws.
★
He pointed out that four groups of enterprises, if compelled to pay honest taxes on their incomes, would provide more than $1,000,000,000 in revenue. These four are "educational and altruistic organizations" that really run competitive businesses, government-owned businesses, labor-union businesses, co-operative and other mutual organizations. Mason cites two or three important examples: "Tom Campbell's famous 95,000-acre wheat ranch in Montana has been sold to a charitable trust for $2,000,000, and its earnings, which heretofore have been subject to the 38% corporate income tax, will now go tax-free.
"Ed Gardner's, radio comedy, 'Duffy's Tavern,' is now being broadcast from the studio of the government-owned radio station at San Juan, P.R., where it is able to evade payment of all income tax on earnings under a ridiculous loophole in our tax statutes.
★
"A Broadway columnist states that "Hollywood moguls are working out a plan to set up film companies as co-operatives to escape many taxes.'
"And two days ago it was reliably reported that the huge Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. will become a nontaxpaying consumer co-operative if the Justice Department wins its suit to break up the grocery chain into seven pieces. John Hartford, head of A&P, said in an interview:
★
"'If the government wins I will convert the whole business into the biggest consumer co-operative you ever saw. I'll sell shares in the enterprise to the people of our country, and they will get tax-free patronage dividends. If it is illegal to run the business the way we are doing it, then we will run it on a legal, tax-free basis.'"
On the other hand, there are the wartime excise taxes that stifle legitimate businesses and thus indirectly prevent the flow of income that might be taxed. And there is the vicious Section 102, which permits the Treasury to impose its business judgment upon corporations and compel the payment of dividends when there is vital need for reserves. These scattered examples are enough to show the need for energetic action in the next Congress.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.