When and if President Truman takes to the road for his stymied program in Congress, we shall hear him plead for stand-by powers to control inflation. This part of his recommendations looks quite innocent. And while standing firmly against his larger measures, more and more members of Congress will say, "Why not give him something—his stand-by powers, for example? They are harmless."

Such powers, however, are described in a bill already introduced. This bill is the product of a Cabinet committee headed by the Secretary of Agriculture. It gives the President discretionary authority (1) to make allocations of scarce materials such as steel, copper, tin, lead and zinc; (2) to set maximum prices and wages; and (3) to make loans to expand facilities of production and in "emergencies" to build and operate plants.

The bill gives the President a new assistant with a salary of $20,000 who would, in effect, be a stand-by price administrator. Such an administrator would, of course, hire a lot of assistants. These are rusty and discarded weapons. It is hardly likely that bread or meat would be rationed, and the fixing of maximum prices for most products would be meaningless. Allocations have meaning only in warlike situations.

But there is no assurance that the left-wing elements in the administration would not immediately seize upon other powers to prepare the way for wide socialistic experiments in production. And it is quite clear that such preparations, even if not carried to completion, would further intensify the shortages that are now claimed by the administration. The proposed office of price administrator at a large salary would be a glittering prize. It appeals to politicians as a fat job, and there are many old Truman friends still to be cared for. It also offers to those who want more government in business a fine avenue for their experiments.

No one could expect this stand-by administrator really to stand by. He would have to stir about and find "evils" to correct. Otherwise, he could not impress his employer, the President. Moreover, the recent utterances of Keyserling and Clark, economic advisers of the President, indicate that they are intent upon pushing the government into the business of manufacturing. The President, says Clark, must have the requested powers, including the right of "the government itself to become a producer."

Keyserling says that, while the producers and processors of food and fibers do not make excessive profits, the "trade" could do with less. Thus, the squeeze would be placed on wholesalers and retailers, in that order. There are relatively few votes among wholesalers, perhaps 250,000. Retailers are more numerous. But both constitute only a negligible political threat. As I interpret the President when he talks of "special interests" (he used the term 13 times in his Jackson-Jefferson speech), he means any group with sufficiently few votes to serve as a whipping boy.