The Congress Will Be
Our Repository of Hope
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Despite the demand of administration supporters that everyone now fall in step behind the President, a profound distrust in the President's administration lingers on.
On all sides, anyone who listens may hear frightened people expressing grave concern about the capacity of the President to guide us through the storm. This widespread feeling can neither be changed nor glossed over by fine words about unity. This is a crisis at home as well as a crisis abroad.
Such an emergency of shattered confidence in the head of the state has no real answer in the letter of our Constitution. The people who wrote the Constitution were anxious to create a strong Presidency and, with George Washington in mind, they believed that large power would be safe in the hands of a President.
The system they created, however, had no flexibility. A fixed elective term prohibited changes in the Presidency when the occupant of that office had lost the confidence of the country.
Hamilton probably was more farsighted than his colleagues, because he favored a life term for the President, presumably with a chance to change Cabinet members or even some officials with the status of a Prime Minister, when shifting confidence or circumstances made that necessary.
In short, Hamilton favored making the President a constitutional sovereign like the King of England. But Hamilton was overruled. A fixed term was provided.
Really responsible electors were to make a careful and deliberate selection of a President, and he was to hold great power for four years. Later, "democracy" swept away the safeguard of a responsible Electoral College.
So we have a political President responsible only to a vague-mandate two years old, which was given under entirely different circumstances by about one-quarter of the eligible voters of the nation.
We are therefore—to use a blunt expression—stuck with Mr. Truman, whose capacity for wise judgment and whose habit of selecting wise advisers is gravely in question.
But we have a Congress with great power to supervise and control executive acts. The new Congress will be very evenly divided between the nominal parties. But a real and heavy majority is against the Truman policies. How can that real majority organize itself to provide the sort of check upon the executive that public opinion is demanding?
One way has been suggested by a number of people. The writer of this column is not convinced that this method is possible or practicable, But it is constitutional and it deserves thought and discussion.
Under this plan, two or more southern Democratic Senators and 19 or more House Democrats would vote with the Republicans and take over control of the two houses. That control would mean naming the new Speaker and other majority leaders. It would also name all committee chairmen.
Those chairmanships would go to the members, either Democratic or Republican, who had seniority on the respective committees. Some would be Democratic; some Republican. Thus there would be in control of all legislation, of all investigation and supervision of the executive departments, and of all co-operative contacts with the President, a conservative coalition.
This would be a revolution within the Constitution. Its justification would be the present emergency. And possibly it would ultimately create a new party alignment for the campaign of 1952.
It is something to think over.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.