Facts About Republicans
and Korean Aid Bills
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Since in two wars and in the
failure of peace after the first
war great political hay has
been gathered by blaming Republicans for isolationism, administration people are again
swinging the old scythe.
Spokesmen for the administration people are already saying that the Republican voting
record on Korean aid is that
on Jan. 19 when the House rejected the aid bill the Republicans voted 130 against and 21
for the bill. They say further
that Rep. John Vorys, who led
the opposition, called it "Operation Rathole."
That is the charge that will
be shouted in scores of districts this fall.
Here are the facts:
Rep. Vorys, on Jan. 19, did
say on the House floor that
"we should not vote money
down the Korean rathole that
will not help them militarily."
He referred to the bill which
was rejected that day. The bill
did not provide one dime for
military aid. Vorys meant that
if we gave fertilizer and farm
implements and the like and
took no steps to protect South
Korea from the attack which
was already in readiness, our
money and goods would go to
North Korea and the Russians.
Long before that, on July 26,
1950, Republican members of
the House Committee on Foreign Affairs protested against
a bill for aid to Korea on the
same ground. Their words,
uttered a year ago, have a profoundly prophetic sound.
After noting that Russia was
pushing North Korean forces
into shooting on the frontier,
their report went on to say:
"This development may well
precede the launching of a full-
scale military drive across the
38th parallel. Unless this nation
is prepared to meet force with
comparable force, economic assistance cannot of itself insure the safety or the integrity of South Korea. To the
contrary, there is every reason to believe that the lending
of economic assistance at this
time will only enhance the
prize to be taken by force of
arms and internal intrigue.
"Our forces, with the exception of an advisory mission,
have been withdrawn from
South Korea at the very instant when logic and common
sense both demanded no retreat from the realities of the
situation. With our forces on
the scene of action, there
might have been advanced
substantial arguments in favor
of economic assistance, but
without the presence of an adequate force to protect delivery
of, and guarantee practical
utilization of, the great volume
of materiel and supplies, it appears folly of the highest order
to embark upon the program."
This was signed by Reps.
Robert B. Chiperfield, Lawrence H. Smith, Donald L.
Jackson, John D. Lodge and
John M. Vorys. Such Republican warnings continued in
both House and Senate for a
year.
Meanwhile, in July a year
ago, $10,230,000 was appropriated for military aid. Since hostilities began, Maj. Gen. Lemnitzer admitted to the Senate
Appropriations Committee
that only $200 worth of signal
wire had been provided for
Korea.
It is poor business for an administration that ignored these
warnings and neglected this
opportunity to aid to seek to
place responsibility on Republicans.