Meanwhile, Churchill
Has Stolen the Show
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
LONDON--Winston Churchill has returned to the political
wars, fit and full of fight. He bears every evidence of well-being.
His inimitable tricks of language and of mannerism are once
more on display. His command of the art of shaping a political
speech to gain the utmost effect is evident in the texts of his
utterances.
They are, at least so far, meticulously prepared. They are
also minutely edited, as evidenced by the fact that preliminary
drafts of his major speech which were released to the press
were followed by two sets of small corrections. By the time the
Churchill speeches are delivered, they are models of style and
content.
Such care is essential not only because of the momentous
nature of this election, but because, despite every effort on
Churchill's part, everything in
his life since his great leadership in 1940 is likely to be considered an anticlimax. Ten
years have passed since Britain's and Churchill's, "finest
hour." That decade for this
man of mellow years has been
full of crises, illness and unflagging labor.
Although he had spoken once
before on a broadcast, his
speech at Leeds was the formal
opening of his party's campaign.
It was somewhat in the nature
of a political platform which,
unlike most such manifestos,
was marked by eloquence and
by the great advantage of being
prepared by one man and not in the atmosphere of compromise
and niggling in which most party declarations are created. The
speech is infinitely superior in craftsmanship to the formal Conservative manifesto.
*
*
Churchill indicted the Labor Party on its principles, its disguised objectives, its methods and its results. His reception at
Leeds was tremendous and completely overshadowed that accorded on the same day and in the same city to Herbert Morrison, Labor leader in the House of Commons and generalissimo
of the Labor campaign.
Churchill has already greatly impressed his opponents on
the Labor side. It is easy to see that they are adapting their
strategy to meet his marked popularity. Such adaptation would
be almost impossible in any American Presidential campaign,
where great distances are a factor and where speeches are
prepared far ahead and generally not by the candidate but by
a staff of economists, stylists and what not.
Aneurin (Nye) Bevan, who in some respects revives in an
American the memory of the late Huey Long, tempered his furious oratory the next day at Liverpool to meet this apparent
Churchill popularity. He said: "Churchill is a man for whom
I have quite considerable respect and who in 1940 said things
in a way that was unmatched and did great service to this country. That is why I deplore the miserable mob he has got
amongst."
That for Bevan is almost cringing politeness. Bevan, true to
his flair for innuendo, then raised the inevitable question of
longevity and danger of death. He said that Churchill is not
a young man. And, skirting the suggestion of natural death,
he asked where would the Conservatives be if Churchill got run
over by a bus? He suggested that Conservatives should now
promise that if they get into power and if such an accident
should happen, they would hold a general election.
Churchill seems at the moment to have stolen the show.
He will glory in that. As the campaign warms up, he will hit
harder and harder and summon up from his stockpile of language plenty of new ways to describe his opponents. No one
since Lloyd George and Gladstone has so dominated the British
political landscape.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.