Landon's Case for Keeping
the United Nations 'As Is'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Three points of view concerning the United Nations have recently been expressed by people of significance in American public life.
Herbert Hoover suggests abandoning the one-world concept and forming a new league outside the Communist orbit.
President Truman, speaking for himself and through his Secretary of State, sounds more and more as if he believed that the issues must be resolved between the United States and the Soviets by force if necessary.
John Foster Dulles proposes a broad revision of the U.N. Charter.
*
Alf M, Landon, former Presidential candidate, is inclined to disagree with all three of these views. He deplores the implication of the President's attitude that force and force alone should prevail.
This, he holds, violates the entire concept of peace through law sustained by the organized opinion of the world or a major part thereof. The United Nations is the best expression of this concept that we have.
Instead, keep it, Landon says, use it fearlessly, aggressively and tirelessly. Even the sharp issue over the aircraft lost in the Baltic should be referred to the United Nations.
With reference to the Hoover proposal, Landon believes that it is best to let the Russians continue, if they choose, to rebuff the United States rather than to offer the appearance of deserting it ourselves.
*
He suggests the humble analogy of a county convention contest before the day of the primary. The side that had the chairman and control of the temporary organization always made a mistake when it decided to leave the hall and hold the convention elsewhere.
When that happened, the other crowd convened in the hall at the time when the meeting was scheduled and perfected its own organization. Later, in the contest before the credentials committee in the State convention, the deciding factor between the delegations was usually possession of the hall in which the county convention had originally been directed to meet.
Instead of trying to reform the United Nations at this time, as Dulles suggests, or to form a new league, as Hoover suggests, Landon would hold to the original concept, endure the continuous billingsgate of the Russians and let them walk out as has been their habit. Thus, our position with other nations would be continually strengthened.
*
Perhaps that is best. The machinery, however neglected, is there. It can only, of course, with great difficulty settle minor matters with the Russians and their satellites, But it can, if sustained by the rest of the nations, remain permanently in wait for the moment when the better instincts of the world shall prevail.
It needs no new league to show that there are in reality two worlds—not one. The Russians prove that every day. But we have cast our lot for one league.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.