While Congress is preoccupied with foreign affairs, economic controls, taxes and defense legislation, a very important piece of business needs doing this year.
The decisions of the supreme Court in the so-called tidelands cases affecting California, Texas and Louisiana have left the ownership and ultimate control of vast properties affecting our national life completely in the air. Everyone, including the Supreme Court, looks to Congress to clarify the issue by specific legislation.
The California case, decided in 1947, and the Texas and Louisiana cases, decided this year, were masterpieces of ambiguity. In general, the decisions seemed to associate the unquestioned sovereignty of the national government over the properties with ownership, despite the fact that sovereignty, or imperium, and ownership, or dominium, have always hitherto been separate.
Until now the States have assumed ownership, and private companies have paid the States royalties for oil taken out, under arrangements with the States. Now no one knows whether the royalties belong to the States or to the Federal government and royalties are set aside for final determination.
It is even unclear how far out in the ocean and Gulf the property rights of the States extend. Texas clearly reserved rights far beyond the three-mile limit at the time of its admission to the Union. And it is uncertain what the three-mile limit actually means. Does it mean three miles beyond land at low or at high tide? The term "tidelands" is, of course, a misnomer, because the disputed property lies beyond the area covered and uncovered by the tides. An enormously important question involves the watersouth of the region surrounding Santa Barbara. This part of the coast faces what is properly called a channel. A series of islands follows the coast for many miles at a distance of 20 miles or so. Between the mainland and the islands and under the water are deposits of oil worth indeterminate but undoubtedly vast numbers of millions. If the so-called three-mile limit is to be recognized, where does the measurement begin? Is it beyond the mainland or beyond the islands?
The purpose of the States affected is to secure the enactment of legislation by Congress definitely assigning the title of the underwater land adjoining the States to the States. The Federal administration is determined to seize it all.
Some shortsighted members of Congress from inland States favor the Federal claims. They do not realize that under the strange language of these Supreme Court rulings almost all mineral property might ultimately be claimed by the Federal government, regardless of location.
Compromises in Congress center around giving the Federal government everything beyond that. Meanwhile, the entire issue awaits action.