A Longer Work Week
at Straight Hourly Pay
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Labor Secretary Tobin seems
to be one high administration
official who recognizes the
needs of this undeclared emergency. He says that if all-
out war production becomes
necessary the government will
work out plans for a longer
work week at straight pay.
Under present conditions overtime pay is required after 40
hours.
Tobin goes on to say that
each hour added to the work
week is the equivalent of 400,000 new workers. If we should
go to 45 hours we should be
adding the equivalent of 2,000,000 good workers.
In terms of production this
would be much better than
finding new workers, a task
which will be almost impossible as the crisis darkens. For
the workers already employed
are trained and, for the most
part, sound physically and
mentally. That would not be
true of the odds and ends that
would be brought into the labor force out of the present
counted and uncounted unemployed.
The Tobin proposal is not
new. Baruch brought it out
some years ago as a means of
fighting inflation.
The 40-hour week is a product of the depression. It was
a means then of spreading jobs
over a larger number of workers.
*
It has no specific relationship with the point of diminishing efficiency in workers,
although such a rationalization
has been repeatedly stated. All
that can be said with assurance is the self-evident fact
that men and women grow
tired and less efficient after
many hours work and that at
a certain point their product
is not worth their wage. But
since this varies among workers there is no way of fixing
exact point of diminishing returns.
When Maj. Gen. Philip
Fleming was administrator of
the wage and hours division of
the Labor Department in 1939
he said that the greatest efficiency was attained at 40
hours. This was found to be
fallacious during the war.
The issue at this time of
whether time and a half should
be paid raises a serious question of inflation. If a man working 45 hours is to draw 47½
hours' pay, he will get about
5% more per hour and if his
time goes to 50 hours with
time and a half, his overall
hourly pay will rise 10%.
This would increase the cost
of everything in proportion.
*
Such a deliberate spur to inflation would be a challenge to
every investor who is asked
to buy government bonds and
to every owner of an insurance policy or a savings account. It would also be an unfair burden upon those whose
hours cannot be adjusted,
such as schoolteachers and
others. They would be paying
the increased prices without
any opportunity to earn more
by working longer.
It would be an act of genuine
statesmanship if labor leaders
and the administration would
accept the necessity of more
production without inflationary wage increases. It would
be no real sacrifice to work
longer at straight pay and it
would ultimately help all consumers, including those who
received that pay.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.