WHERE NOT
TO SPEND
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Since the major cause of inflation is government spending, it would seem that the first step for Congress in finding money for new military purposes would be to cut expenditures elsewhere.
And since the major purpose of controls is the prevention of shortages and the prevention of the bidding up of costs of materials, the first step in that direction would be to stop using such materials for non-military government projects.
Instead of turning to these obvious methods of relief, the administration asks for new taxes, and the advocates of controls propose immediate regimentation of the economy —apparently on the assumption that all new expenditures must be added to the present budget.
The fact is that about half of the $10,500,000,000 now asked for could be saved for the time being by abandoning or deferring several items in current government activities.

First, government housing could be drastically reduced or stopped altogether, except for those units required for defense workers.
Next, Point 4 should be dropped altogether.
It is silly to think of putting money into areas over which the next armies of aggression may move.
It might be well to withhold all military aid from countries that fail to supply at least some aid in the present Korean effort.
The ECA program might be overhauled and considerably reduced for the emergency.
A great deal might be conserved by suspending all public works projects such as dams, power developments and irrigation except those that are so near completion as to have a bearing on defense activities.
Many of these expensive projects would not in any event be completed for years.
They require materials that are already in short supply.
And, incidentally, they should not be financed out of current government income in any event, but out of bond issues.

Savings on these projects will be difficult.
Congressmen and Senators affected will scream piteously and advance all sorts of reasons why their particular pet is essential to the war in Korea.
But if ever an instance presented itself in which the national interest should come first, it is this demand for new military money.
Civilians are being asked to make new sacrifices to meet this emergency.
They are asked by the President to bear more taxes.
It is highly fitting that government spenders and politicians show the way by sacrificing some of their objectives first.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.