Oligopoly—A New Name
for a 70-Year-Old Play
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Wars may come and wars
may go—three of them in this
case; empires fall and dictatorships rise—a lot of them.
"Trilby," "Floradora," "Able's
Irish Rose," "Oklahoma!" and
"South Pacific" all have their
days and pass.
But over more than 70 years
our political stage has seen no
lack of talk about business
monopolies. Rep. Emanuel Cell-
er is in the cast now, just
as were John Sherman, Pujo,
Walsh and O'Mahoney in days
gone by. But the book and
lyrics remain the same. Is big-
ness bad in business? Is big-
ness efficient? And what are
we to do about it?
*
Celler has contributed a new
name for the fabulous monster: "oligopoly." But the general
theme is the same as ever.
Meanwhile, in these 70 years
the United States has grown
to an incredible strength,
standards of living have risen
beyond any dreams of the past,
the world stands amazed and
a large part of the world seeks
our support. All this, despite
the doleful assertions of politicians that bigness is crushing
independent enterprise and is
grossly wasteful and inefficient.
Perhaps this perennial process of probing and deploring
has been a corrective for business
wickedness. For no one
will contend that business
does not need some watching.
But in these investigations
political arguments still confuse the fundamental issue.
That issue comes down to the
question of which evils the
government can do something
about and which evils the government cannot do anything
about.
The first clear point which
needs to be emphasized is that
government action cannot produce efficiency. Government
cannot even produce efficiency
in its own operations, as the
Hoover Commission has abundantly proved. Efficiency is
produced by the action of human beings operating in a competitive system.
That point, of course, brings
the answer from government
that it can indirectly compel
efficiency by legal attacks and
threats of attack on unfair
practices and monopoly. No
one objects to that assumption
of power by government, and
plenty of laws and administrative machinery are available to attack such evils whenever they appear.
*
Those laws and the general
operation of economic laws
cannot be so bad in the light
of the facts. For while many
of these investigations have
been going on, no appreciable
increase in business size has
taken place.
According to the Department
of Commerce, there were 36
business firms for each thousand of the nation's nonfarm
population in 1900. In 1947,
there were 34. When we consider the great growth of the
mechanical arts and new demonstrations of the value of the
division of labor, this is an astonishing show of the vitality
of small businesses.
The Department of Commerce has shown, further, that
the small businesses have actually had a healthier growth
than large businesses have had
over a period which includes
both war and peace years.
*
And there has been no increase in the rate of bigs swallowing smalls in 20 years.
Perhaps the strength of
these factual studies is what
induced Secretary Sawyer to
say in a recent speech in Milwaukee that these issues
should be determined on their
merits and not on a generalized political plane of inciting hatred for big businesses
just because they are big.
The public is interested in
good goods and services at reasonable prices. It is not well
served by those who merely
excite a class struggle between
the bigs and smalls. Rep. Celler might rather concern himself with the effects of government tax policies which really
penalize small businesses and
stand in their way toward bigness. It is not big business but
big government that endangers
liberty and progress.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.