Attlee May Seem to Be Soft,
but He's a Tough Socialist
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
LONDON—Clement R. Attlee, Prime Minister of Great Britain and for years leader of the Labor Party, is not as meek as he acts or as ordinary as he looks. He is traveling about among the constituencies in this campaign, making speeches and putting heart into his candidates.
Attlee was born in comfortable circumstances and educated at Oxford. He had a liking for history and has said that this left him with admiration for "strong, ruthless rulers." He trained as a lawyer, but his Socialistic habit of mind led him into social work. Of course, he joined the Fabian Society, and until World War I he drifted around, teaching, lecturing, and studying social problems at firsthand. After that war, he moved into Labor politics, which has occupied him continuously ever since.
No one ever made better use of a disarming exterior to disguise inflexible Socialist orthodoxy and a quiet will to attain power. To illustrate ultimate Socialist power, he once suggested that all local authorities should be superseded by officers of the central government. He has said over and over again that there can be no mixing of capitalism with Socialism. It must be all one or the other. He rules the Cabinet with tact, but with complete authority. No Prime Minister of recent times has fired or demoted more colleagues.
Attlee's right-hand man and deputy is Herbert Morrison, whose nominal and salaried office is Lord President of the Council and whose real job is leader of his party in the House of Commons. He also is the real boss of party machinery in this campaign. Morrison, like Attlee, was trained in local government.
Morrison seems to have no consuming attachment to orthodox Socialism. He is first and last a politician. He, no doubt, is too tactful to betray any lack of interest in the gospel according to Marx. But he is quite capable of shifting emphasis in this campaign from the radical program of nationalization promised in the party manifesto to more homely, comforting talk about where government dwellings are going to be built, how people all have jobs and how badly neglected people were under the Tories.
Both Attlee and Morrison illustrate a fact that is quite clear now after four and a half years of Labor rule. The party is concerned with power. Its ideology is its means of attracting votes. But lest anyone should get the idea that there is any intention of making a truce with capitalism, it must be added that Socialism is not merely a set of ideas. It also is the most effective means of subjugating people to a political government ever devised.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.