LONDON — "In Scotland," says the respected Edinburgh newspaper, the Scotsman, "the heather is on fire." The reference is to the strong Scottish movement for home rule that had both major parties worried in the campaign just completed.
Scotsmen, despite their loyalty in the wars of Britain and despite their full Parliamentary representation, have always regarded their country as a distinct unit.
Scotland kept its own Parliament until the famous Act of Union in 1707. The basic constitutional rights of Scotland are preserved in that act. For centuries all went well.
In recent years, however, the feeling has been growing that Scotland is giving more than it is receiving in the partnership. With the war and the decline of British economic power, this feeling blazed up into a genuine home rule movement. The most extreme side of this movement is the Scottish National Party. It has put candidates into Parliamentary campaigns and in 1945 it elected Dr. Robert McIntyre, leader of the party, to a seat at Westminster. McIntyre made quite a stir there and later lost his seat.
Much more formidable than the National Party has been what is known as the Convention, which was organized by moderates in 1942. It kept a nonpartisan character and pressed for a number of specific changes in the relationship between the countries. In 1947, it held a Scottish national assembly and adopted a program for home rule in most domestic affairs, with retention of its members of Parliament at Westminster.
When its representatives approached the Labor government with its demands, they were not favorably received. So last year it started a petition and, despite the doubts of the British government, has gathered over 1,000,000 names. Considering the fact that Scotland has a population of only about 5,000,000, this is formidable. This petition is called the covenant. In April of this year, the Convention will hold another national assembly and will adopt plans for further measures toward home rule.
Scots feel that they are in position to better themselves through home rule in domestic affairs. They have considerable assets which might be developed—coal, a jute industry and agricultural products. They could come closer to feeding themselves without imports because per capita production of food in Scotland is about 70% greater than in England and Wales. They want hydroelectric developments in the Highlands and a number of other developments that they could hardly get from a hard-pressed Westminster.
It is clear that nationalism as a movement is never a comfortable partner of Socialism. The Scottish question is not taken seriously in London, but it is a reality north of the border.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.