A TVA Here, a TVA There, Everywhere a TVA
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
President Truman, in a press
conference following his message, proclaimed his intention
to push relentlessly his plan
to set up authorities, modeled
on the TVA, in all the important river valleys of the
nation. He spoke particularly
of a "unified project for the
Mississippi, Missouri and Ohio
Valleys." He went into the
St. Lawrence idea at some
length.
Finally he spoke of the
Northeast, the Northwest, the
Southwest and the Red River
Valleys. It is noteworthy that
in his message he spoke specifically of New England. All
that covers a lot of territory
and raises a great many questions. It illustrates the same
emphasis upon vague objectives that characterized his
treatment, in the message, of
several other national problems.
When we come to specific
and immediate objectives in
the master idea of covering
the country with Federal authorities we can assume that
the program vigorously exploited by the Interior Department with the President's approval last year will be pursued. That program looked
upon the setting up of a Columbia Valley administration
first. Incidentally, the President's bill writers, in order to
soften the impact, have discarded the word "authority"
for "administration." This is
merely a matter of semantics,
since the pattern of the TVA
is the framework for all the
projects.
The Missouri Valley seems
to be next slated for an authority. The bill on that differs somewhat from the CVA
bill in that it permits a bit
more local autonomy, perhaps because it covers more
ground and involves more local interests.
The plan to set up an authority in New England seems
to be in the formative stage.
It has appeared so far only in
speeches in New England by
the Interior Department's
chief spokesman on valleys,
C. Gerard Davidson.
In the Columbia Valley the
battle is on with singular intensity. The bill, several
times amended, has been
thoroughly debated. The Senate and House committee
hearings last summer cover
2000 pages.
The proponents of the bill
hold stubbornly to all the essentials. The proposal is to
link up all water projects
under a three-member board.
It would have vast and almost unreviewable powers.
State authority would fade into
the half light of mere advice.
The authority would be fairly
free of Congressional scrutiny
except before appropriation
committees. The authority
would soon be so deeply in
the business of selling power
that Congressional appropriations would be incidental.
State water laws would lose
their force and court action
would be in Federal, not State
courts.
While there are vast differences between the Tennessee and the Columbia Valleys,
the building of authority
would largely follow the same
lines. The major proponents,
Krug, Davidson and others,
were for the most part TVA
trained.
The Governors of the affected part of the Northwest are
solidly against the plan and
already the Missouri Valley
Governors are disturbed. Congressmen from the affected
areas are divided on the subject.
The first decisive battle is
not likely to be in Congress,
but in the elections next fall.
The whole subject will be the
major interest then in the
Northwest.
In general, this series of
projects is the most ambitious
of all the Truman adventures
in collectivism and the most
expensive. It is a pity that the
country as a whole is not better informed of its potentialities. But it may well be before
the year ends.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.