A shrewd American economist, in commenting on present trends in business, recalls the tricks practiced by boys when he was in school in Germany.
It seems that the rule was to dismiss school when the thermometer registered 92 deg. When the thermometer climbed toward but failed to reach the happy signal for a vacation a lad would be delegated to induce action with a match. Then when the schoolmaster read his artificially inflated thermometer in the garden he would close school for the day.
The economist added, however, that the boys, unlike some people who have been playing with economic matches in Washington, were not sufficiently naive to dance in the streets and proclaim the secret magic of their recess.
The Truman administration, anticipating an election, lighted a match consisting of a fund of $2,800,000,000 in so-called "veterans' life insurance dividends." Government economists figured that such a boost would increase employment by something like 2,000,000.
The result was somewhat below that because quite unexpectedly a large number of the beneficiaries invested their dividends in life insurance.
According to the Institute of Life Insurance, the increase in new business in February, 1950, over the same month in 1949 was 36.5%. This trend is explained by agents as a desire on the part of holders of life insurance to make up the purchasing power that had been lost through inflation in insurance already in effect.
Thus, instead of a spree in purchases, there was a drift toward saving. Government meddling in one instance with money values destroyed the effect of another happy enterprise in heating the economic thermometer.
There are, of course, more natural forces operating in the present economic field. A big transition has been taking place from purchases in so-called "soft goods" to "hard goods." Because of the popularity of television a revolution has been taking place in family life. Money has been flowing into goods for the home, including home construction itself.
Away from home, matters have been neglected. Restaurants have suffered. One big chain reports a reduction in sales volume of 4.5%, mainly because of fewer customers in the evening hours. It is well known that the movie business is a serious victim of the stay at home and watch the television.
Department stores are afflicted by the disposition of people to spend less on clothing and other soft goods. Presumably, money going into television sets is withdrawn from clothing purchases. Old clothes are just as good in the dim light of the living room.
Thus, a means of entertainment regarded for a while as merely a novel gadget has had more effect on the economy than on the power of a super-government.
That is because it has involved the production of real wealth, rather than tampering with money, a symbol of wealth.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.