Some Pension-Plan Defects
Are Now Becoming Visible
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The drive for industrial pensions initiated by John L. Lewis has lost some momentum. But some leaders, not yet halted by the failures of the Lewis welfare fund and the incontestable figures on industrial pensions generally, are continuing the quest. Some unions are now raising the figure to $125 a month.

Meanwhile, three great problems are now being faced, both by unions and employers.

First, it becomes clear beyond the shadow of a doubt that the sort of pensions contemplated in the steel settlement cannot be paid by most small businesses. A corporation with $500,000 of capital and a couple of hundred employees has no real security of its own. The figures reveal that many such companies disappear after five to 10 years. If a pension fund is built up in such companies, it becomes indissolubly related to company finances. If the premium is given to an insurance company, it becomes more expensive than was calculated in the clumsy figuring of the President's steel board and the unions.

In the face of this, some labor spokesmen, such as Solomon Barkin of the textile workers, suggest that it may not be expedient to claim pensions for all in the remote future, but to care for those superannuated now or who will be within a few years. This would mean a pay-as-you-go plan. It would simply mean a new wave of wage demands for those not covered.

A second and more serious problem that perplexes everyone is how to care for an employee's vested interest when he is laid off or when he wants to leave the company. How can the money be transferred from company to company? The firing and hiring policies of employers must be modified to meet this question. It will bring many more complications into collective bargaining and, since such bargaining is often conducted before a fixed deadline, the possibility of adjusting such subtle details will become more and more hurried and inadequate.

The third problem is already appearing in the statistics of employment. In September Secretary of Labor Tobin went to the White House with the prediction that an additional million would be employed by Jan. 1. When 1950 arrived there was no increase at all. Instead, there was a decrease in employment.

Pension claims undoubtedly had a lot to do with this decline. They force the employer to reserve something from every labor hour for pensions. This money does not increase purchasing power. It is frozen. The employer has high fixed costs and cannot reduce prices. Prices must even be increased. At the same time, the flow of wage money into the consumer market drops. Then the labor market is affected. Jobs are lost and unemployment complicates the whole situation. These are considerations that must be faced in Congress when Social Security comes up for revisions.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.