You Pay for Gasoline
-and 197 Taxes, Too
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Sen. Taft plans to answer President Truman's speeches later
this month. That's fine. The answer will be excellent. But here
is a way to have them answered at every crossroad.
There are millions of salesmen over the country who pay
taxes and are veritable power plants of a free economy. If they
would throw in a bit of political advice with every sale, politicians might find it harder to sell phony ideas.
★
Here's a suggestion for a gasoline salesman who has filled
'er up for a farmer who has just heard the President tell about
the Brannan plan. It could happen in almost any State.
"So you think you are getting something for nothing and
that a lot of fat cats are paying all the taxes? That's what you
think! Well, let's look at the facts.
"When you paid for those eight gallons of gas just now, you
paid more than 197 taxes.
"First you paid a Federal excise tax and a State gasoline
tax. You probably know that much, because it's posted with the
price. But that's only the beginning of the story.
"I am a dealer and I pay seven kinds of taxes—three to
Uncle Sam and four to the State.
★
"The man who brings the gas to me from the bulk plant in
the next big town pays several more taxes.
"The bulk plant is owned by a big company that sells
through this whole area. That company gets its gas from a
terminal by truck. The trucking company pays six Federal
taxes and 11 State taxes.
"The terminal people pay 11 Federal taxes and 14 State taxes.
"The gas or oil at the terminal comes by pipe line from the
refinery in Louisiana. To get it to the terminal it travels in
four States. The pipe line company pays taxes in all those
States. In all, it pays 51 State taxes and 12 Federal taxes.
"The refinery in Louisiana pays 12 Federal taxes and 17
State taxes.
"Then there is the pipe line that brings the crude oil to the
refinery from the well. That company pays 12 Federal taxes
and 15 State taxes. Now we get back to the well. The owner of
that well pays 11 Federal taxes and 16 State taxes.
"If my arithmetic is right, that's a total of 197 taxes—68
Federal and 129 State.
"But if I wanted to go on, there are several others...
"But here's another victim—I mean customer—coming, and
I have to stop.
"Just one more word, though. Who pays all these taxes—the
big oil companies? No, you pay them. The benefits you get from
Uncle Sam you pay for yourself. If you didn't, you wouldn't
get any gas, for this gas business is no charity. And when you
come to think of it, government is no charity, either.
★
"The government takes it from you and gives part of it
back. The rest goes for Government employees' pay, nonpolitical tours and a lot of other things. If you weren't a smart
fellow you wouldn't buy gas from me. And if you weren't a smart
fellow I wouldn't waste all this time telling you these things.
Good-by, and better luck next Congress."
Note: This space is limited. The names of all those taxes
cannot be included. They can be furnished, however, by the
Tax Foundation in New York. That's where I got this information.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.