Budget Reveals to Britain
Socialism's Staggering Cost
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When Parliament received
some staggering figures for
supplementary appropriations,
the British press noted under
the heading of "invalids" the
Rt. Hon. Aneurin Bevan. It
seems that the Minister of
Health was suffering from a
chill.
Judging by the figures that
are now appearing for supplementary appropriations needed for health and other services, Bevan's chill is likely to
become epidemic. For the excessive cost of Socialism now
becomes quite apparent, and
it is easy to see why the Labor government wanted an
election before the bad news
came out.
Between now and the day in
April when the British Chancellor of the Exchequer presents the budget for the year
1050-51, there must be considered and passed the supplementary expenses for the present year. Judging by what
has appeared since the new
House began its work, the
news will be very bad. The
hope for reduced taxes will
fade out.
The British government
takes by taxation about 40%
of the national income. This
figure is regarded by all parties as the utmost that can be
squeezed from the taxpayer.
To raise the rate further would
result in less rather than more
revenue. The revenues raised
will be around £4,300,000,000.
Total expenditures, including
debt services, will be about
£4,000,000,000. The fact that
the budget will be balanced
will provide little cheer, because everyone realizes that
without American aid bankruptcy would rear its head.
In a previous column it was
noted that the cost of the
health service has been running far beyond the estimates
since it began four years ago.
But now we know the facts
for this year. The amount
now required to meet expenses
for this year will be £359,000,000, which is £99,000,000 above
the estimate. It also appears
that through some financial
shifting about, the health service drew £41,000,000 from the
national insurance fund. So
the present year's cost will be
£400,000,000, or £140,000,000
above the estimate. It is believed that the April budget
will ask £450,000,000 for next
year.
Another pet project of the
Labor government which is intended to quiet the public and
offer an illusion of low prices
is food subsidies. The Ministry of Food will be much more
expensive than that of health.
A vast sum has been spent to
build up stocks. This will
surely create an irresistible demand for more rations. Then
the government will either
have to permit prices to rise or
more money must be spent for
subsidies.
This rising cost of government should be considered by
Americans especially in the
light of the slim resources of
Britain. The national income
of the United Kingdom is only
£10,620,000,000. At present rates
of exchange our national income is seven to nine times as
large. But when all taxing
units are added together here,
our burden, despite our wealth,
is moving rapidly toward the
British deadline. And we are
also running a deficit.