A Contempt Citation
and Freedom of Press
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It may be well for all publishers and others interested in a free press to look closely into the issue raised by the citation for contempt of the Congress of Dr. E. A. Rumely of the Committee for Constitutional Government.
The resolution against Rumely was passed after a heated debate by a vote that has every appearance of a sharp political division. Members of a more conservative turn, both Democratic and Republican, voted against the citation. Administration supporters, notably those who favor more extreme business regulation, voted for the resolution. The count was close—183 to 175.
The majority of the select committee on lobbying activities headed by Rep. Frank Buchanan brought in the resolution. In the debate, not only members of the committee participated, but the leaders of the House—Majority Leader John W. McCormack and Minority Leaders Martin and Halleck.
It is clear, not only from the concern of these top leaders with the case, but from the issues themselves, that this may well be a significant landmark in the determination of what constitutes lobbying. It may also settle some basic principles in constitutional law.
Two matters arose which have nothing to do with the real issue. One was the conviction and subsequent full pardon of Rumely many years ago. The other was the use of the Congressmen’s frank-
ing privilege for circulating literature of the Committee for Constitutional Government. The latter is a matter for Congressional self-correction.
*
It appears that Buchanan committee, in a determined effort to discredit the Committee for Constitutional Government, demanded 26 items of information. Rumely produced 25. The remaining one was a list of the names of purchasers of CCG books. This, said Rumely, was outside the jurisdiction of the committee. The CCG, Rumely held, was not engaged in lobbying when it published and sold books.
If the position taken by the House becomes established law, it will be impossible to find a limit to what may be called lobbying. The CCG books and pamphlets are not directed at specific legislators or legislation. They are documents advocating a conservative point of view and are generally in opposition to what may be called socialistic trends in government.
*
If this be lobbying, then any controversial book, article, editorial or novel is lobbying. In short, lobbying in a real sense of direct pressure upon a legislator would lose all meaning. A ruling majority would also be able, under this guise, to pry into the most closely held competitive secrets of publishers and by intimidation make a mockery of the freedom of the press guaranteed by Article I of the Bill of Rights.
It is this, and not Rumely, that is involved in this grave action of the House.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.