REVIEWERS
IN PINK
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The indefatigable John T.
Flynn has provided a summing up of a controversy that
has been gaining in importance and intensity for a long
time.
The general background of this controversy is the charge
that a large proportion of the book reviewing in periodicals
published in New York is burdened with a left-wing bias.
This charge has found its most convincing proof in what reviewers
have written over the last five or six years about American foreign
policy, especially in Asia.
Irene Kuhn presented in the American Legion magazine in January,
1950, an indictment of the way in which New York book reviewers
had treated recent political writings, especially those dealing with our
Far Eastern policy. Sen. Brewster has made a similar indictment on
the floor.
*
Flynn in his new book, "While You Slept," directs his criticism at the
New York Herald Tribune Books of the Week, the New York Times
Weekly Book Review, the Saturday Review of Literature, the Nation and
the New Republic. His documentation of this criticism is as follows:
First, he lists 30 books published between 1943 and 1949 dealing with
China's political problems. Of these, 23 were books that leaned toward
the Chinese Communists; Seven were favorable to the Chinese Nationalists
and against the Communists. Flynn makes the following forthright
statement about the reviews in the five papers and magazines listed above:
★
"Every one of the 23 pro-Communist books, where reviewed, received
glowing approval in the literary reviews I have named—that is, in the New
York Times, the Herald Tribune, the Nation, the New Republic and the
Saturday Review of Literature. And every one of the anti-Communist books
was either roundly condemned or ignored in these same reviews."
Flynn goes on to prove by citing names that there was revealed in the
selection of people by the five newspapers and magazines to do the reviewing
a marked tendency to use the various authors of the various books. In short,
there was established a process of authors puffing each other's books—except
that the anti-Communist authors were not used as reviewers of books favoring
the Chinese Communists.
*
High on the list of reviewers, leading all others, were Owen Lattimore and
his wife and Edgar Snow and wife. Among them, they wrote 23 of the 44
reviews.
The leftist trend in book reviewing in these New York publications has
extended far beyond books on China. It has been quite generally notable in
reviews of books on current political and economic subjects. I am a fairly
consistent reader of those literary reviews, and I feel certain of this. In fairness,
I ought to add that since this criticism has arisen the New York Times has
been more fair in its selection of reviewers. That has not been true of the other
four mentioned above, however.
★
The lesson of this to the nation generally is that there is no reason in the
world to look to New York for leadership and guidance concerning books on
political and economic subjects.
The failure of these New York publications to be fair and competent in book
reviewing is a challenge to and an opportunity for the press of the nation
generally. This country is too big to have its tastes affected by the radical
influences that are so powerful in the pseudointellectual circles of the metropolis.
KNOW THE
ANSWERS?
1—Canada's 3,691,583-square-mile area is how much larger than that of the
United States, including Alaska? (a) 1,674 square miles; (b) 7102 square
miles; (c) 910 square miles.
2—Where is a stalactite found in a cave? (a) Hanging from the ceiling; (b)
rising from the floor; (c) horizontal to the cave floor.
3—What is the yearly salary of a Senator of the United States? (a) $15,000;
(b) $5000; (c) $10,000.
4—The letters "pp" occurring in a musical composition indicate that it should
be performed (a) with force; (b) very softly; (c) quickly.
Answers: 1—(a); 2—(a); 3—(a); 4—(b).
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.