Truman, Not Inflation,
Is Nation's Top Problem
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A friend of mine whose wisdom has been tested by long years of influential journalism said in private conversations several months ago that America's No. 1 domestic problem was not inflation but President Truman. He has repeated this many times since, and the events of the past two weeks have proved his point.
Through stubbornness, or partisanship, or a lack of sound philosophy and historical outlook, the President is creating a domestic crisis that may grow to very serious, not to say perilous, proportions. And the pity is that it is unnecessary.
Three glaring pieces of evidence of Presidential intransigence are his refusal to replace Secretary Acheson and the discredited school of State Department diplomats; his insistence that he has ample power to send American troops anywhere, any time, and his inclusion of the Fair Deal as a part of the defense program.
By every measure of public opinion, including the results of the November election, it is clear that Acheson is not trusted to continue as our major factor in foreign affairs. The old and tried principle of personal loyalty should not apply to the President's determination to keep him in office. Loyalty to the American people should have Presidential priority.
The question of the President's authority to send troops in considerable force to defend Western Europe cannot be decided by citing the many instances where Presidents have acted before. There is in this case a matter of fact and degree which makes precedents meaningless.
It should also be added that when Presidents acted in the past there was in nearly every case no public opposition either before or after. That means either one of two things. It means that those Presidents were higher in public confidence than is President Truman or that the issues were clearer and not so important.
The appearance of the major Fair Deal proposals in the budget under a thin veneer of national necessity is an affront not only to the voters who have repudiated these things in primaries and elections but to the suffering taxpayers who are now asked to dig deeper into capital and savings to meet a national emergency.
These are not cheap or meaningless proposals. Aid to education would cost $300,000,000. The proposed foot-in-the-door for socialized medicine would cost around $250,000,000.
No one can guess what the Brannan plan for perishables would cost, because it would in effect be an open authorization. It might cost several hundred million dollars. There is also a substantial proposal for more government housing at an indeterminate figure.
All these add up to a bill for purely domestic and highly controversial reform of $2,000,000,000 or $3,000,000,000.
Of course, these things will in all probability be rejected by Congress, and the President knows it. Hence, he is playing politics with a great emergency.
All this is a challenge not so much to the Republicans in Congress, who alone can do nothing, but to the fair-minded moderate Senators and Representatives, North and South, in the President's own party.
Gen. Eisenhower is also a great potential factor in this situation. He is regarded by millions of Americans as the foremost public figure. This eminence makes wholly unrealistic his protests that since he is in uniform it is his duty merely to carry out orders,
He can choose his own methods of restraining his Commander in Chief, but his admirers will expect him to play a major role in the decisions relating to Western Europe.
If these moderating influences fail we may indeed drift needlessly into the most serious Presidential problem since Andrew Johnson.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.