John Hersey is a very capable reporter. He proved that in his remarkable story of the effects of the bomb upon the people of Hiroshima. His literary capacity was demonstrated in his "A Bell for Adano." He has now produced a detached account of the daily activities, the interests, the casual comments and personal philosophy of Harry S. Truman, current incumbent of the Presidential office. This account is running serially in the New Yorker. Hersey is true to his faith as a reporter. There are none of his personal views. He conforms to Othello's directive, "Nothing extenuate, nor set down aught in malice." He permits the President to reveal himself. To this reader of Hersey's account the most illuminating part describes a typical Truman day, from dawn to sleep. Since I had a similar opportunity to observe the detailed activities of President Truman's predecessor, I would conclude that the Hersey account represents fairly standard Presidential routine. And his story reinforces a conclusion which I reached long ago, that a President, despite ample facilities, lives in an atmosphere of unreality—a never-never world. The day began when the President, before breakfast, read a long report from his economic advisers—gentlemen, incidentally, who know exactly what they want the President to know. Then he had a conference with his Secretaries and other members of his staff. They had messages and papers to give him, interspersed with wisecracks. Then he met a Congressman who wanted something for his State. Then there were two "hollow-eyed lame duck Congressmen" who wanted jobs. Then the Ambassador to Cuba came to tell the President that the President of Cuba was strongly in favor of the Truman foreign policy. Then a group came from New York to give the President an award, and pictures were taken. Then came the chairman of the National Resources Board, who told the President something about minerals. Then there was lunch, and then a nap. Then there was paper signing for a while. Then a Senator who wanted some appointments, some regional defense offices for his State. Then came Democratic Chairman Boyle, with a batch of recommendations for jobs. Then a glance at the budget message, and more documents to be signed. Then the President went to Blair House and over "two old-fashioneds each" and supper he talked over the budget with Secretary Snyder. Finally to bed and to sleep over the budget. Since this is a typical Presidential day, it may be asked when in all these contacts the President gets straight information about what the sentiment of the country really is and what is really going on in the vast domain over which he presides. Everybody either wants something or is dependent upon amiability and acquiescence to keep his job. Nobody in this long succession is going to tell the whole unvarnished truth. Even the four newspapers that Hersey says the President scans are favorable to his policies. Is it small wonder, after day after day, month after month, and year after year, that the President thinks he is doing well, because "everybody" says so? And that finally he believes that what is right is what he says and what he says is what is right? That is why it is a blessing to limit his term of office. And to bring to this office a fresh mind—a mind which will, in turn, be the victim of the same process of mental autoinoculation.