The Outlook Is Brighter
for the Taxpayer Now
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
With most of Congress and
the country still immersed in
the debate on foreign and military affairs, administration
leaders are getting anxious
about tax and spending legislation. Speaker Rayburn and
Senate Leader McFarland
have announced that there will
be no two months' vacation
for the members. But the
members are still unwilling to
turn to the hard labor of
making financial decisions.
*
It is already quite clear that
the President's hold on the
Democratic majority is so
weak that no action will be
taken on the Fair Deal measures that he recommended in
January.
Even his recognized supporters are silent about health insurance, the Brannan plan,
Federal aid to education and
Federal unemployment compensation. The housing bill
has been cut in half. Universal military training is on
the ice of study. The St. Lawrence seaway plan is making
no progress.
The Defense Production Act
will expire on June 30 and its
renewal is likely to have hard
going. If the Korean situation
brightens it may be drastically
revised.
*
The prospects for a real reduction in present nonmilitary
expenditures are not bright,
although the committees have
done some whittling all along
the line.
The first demand of the
President for tax increases up
to $16,000,000,000 was so unnecessary and unreasonable
that a retreat to $10,000,000,000
was almost immediate. And
the Ways and Means Committee is clearly unwilling to
grant anything like that lower
figure. The committee indicates that it will grant an increase of not more than
$6,500,000,000.. Perhaps this
will come down to $5,500,000,-
000.
The increase of three percentage points in individual income taxes will probably yield
about $3,000,000,000. However,
the old rule that tax receipts
run higher than administration predictions in a time of
inflation may result in a higher return from this increase.
The committee also voted increases in corporation taxes to
yield $2,000,000,000. If the proposed rates are enacted, receipts may be higher than that.
Anyone who plans to sell his
home and buy another will be
cheered by a decision of the
committee to exempt his profit
from a capital gains tax.
The financial picture still
points to a surplus on June 30
-perhaps more than $3,000,-
000,000.
★
If the Korean picture brightens there may be some relief
in military expenditures. That
is, however, still in the area
of the probable and possible.
The great decline in the
President's prestige because of
foreign affairs has created a
new spirit in Congress. The
committees dealing with financial affairs are making their
own decisions. These decisions are not in line with what
should be done in the interest
of sound finance. But that is
because Congress itself is subject to pressures for more
spending.
The over-all picture should
give the taxpayer some comfort. Things are not so bright
as they should be, but they
look brighter than they did in
January.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.