Arizona Water Project;
a Big Grab for a Few
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Since President Truman is
the current scapegoat for all
the nation's troubles, it may
be refreshing to turn from his
sins and shortcomings and contemplate a proposal for spending for which he has no responsibility, the Central Arizona Project. This is a bit of Treasury raiding upon which Congress must act without any prodding from the Chief Executive.

Since the project has not been headline news for two years, it may be well to refresh our memories a bit. It seems that during the war boom in agriculture a number of farmers moved into certain areas in Arizona. Water from wells was available for a while, but, as might have been anticipated, the output from the wells declined and the farms became drier and drier.

As is often the case in our extravagant country, the farmers asked that the government bring water to them. Apparently the old habit of farmers of moving to fresh fields has become a mere historical curiosity. The new habit is to move fresh fields to the farmers.

Politicians got into action and a gigantic plan was made to bring water from the Colorado River at a point above the Hoover Dam. This would involve a new dam, a great pump lift to raise the water 1000 feet, aqueducts and canals to carry the water more than 300 miles, and an 80-mile tunnel.

The present estimate of the cost, according to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, would be $708,780,000 for construction, a 75-year financing period, and interest rate of 2¼%. The job would require eight years of construction. An estimate of the total cost, including interest, by the Secretary of the Interior is $2,075,729,000. This would be saddled upon the taxpayers of the nation.

A bitter controversy has been going on between Arizona and California about the rights to the water. That will have to be decided by the Supreme Court. But the interest of California in the water, while very important to that State, should be a secondary matter to the taxpayers of the nation. They have an interest not in the water but in their money.

In the House of Representatives, the Interior and Insular Affairs Committee has recently voted to "postpone" the measure until the dispute over the water is settled. This, it should be noted, was an action taken merely to postpone rather than to reject the plan as an unwarranted extravagance. But Sen. McFarland of Arizona, as majority leader, has a lot of power now. And so does Sen. Hayden of Arizona who ranks next to the chairman of the Appropriations Committee. If, as is likely, Chairman McKellar is among the missing in the next Congress, and if the Democrats control the Senate, Hayden will be chairman. Arizona will be just as dry then, so this issue will have to be watched a long, long time.

Majority Leader McFarland has announced that he will press for a vote on Senate Bill 75, which is the great project itself.

It is essential to remember that such projects have a way of getting themselves adopted piecemeal. That is, Congress authorizes a project. Then a small appropriation is made. Then a larger one, and finally the project becomes a continuing one in the President's budget.

It is hoped that this colossal piece of spending for a relatively small group of farmers will be beaten and beaten decisively. And not on the mere issue of water rights, but on that of taxpayers' rights. But Senators and Congressmen will bear watching. Most of them are for economy in theory, but for the big grab for their own States.