THE DULLES
PEACE
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Detached from all the turmoil over foreign affairs that
has marked the last months,
John Foster Dulles has patiently and persistently labored with a peace treaty for
Japan. All things now indicate that it will be signed early in
September in San Francisco. After that there is small
doubt about ratification by the Senate.

This is a distinct diplomatic
triumph for Dulles.
His policy toward a treaty
was simple and he has held to it since the beginning. This
policy is that any serious
treaty restrictions imposed
upon a defeated enemy will
ultimately be overcome by one
means or another. The effort
to overcome them will cause
uneasy, not to say unfriendly,
relations among the nations
concerned. At this time such
strained relations outside the
Soviet orbit cannot be tolerated. The United States especially
cannot afford to have
misunderstandings with Japan. For Japan is the strongest
and most reliable barrier
to Communist aggression in
the Far East.

It was not easy to secure
agreement among the parties
to the treaty; to this policy of
reconciliation.
Dulles arrived in Japan almost
immediately after the removal of MacArthur. The
Japanese were shocked and
mystified by the President's
act.

★

Dulles did what he could to
quiet Japanese fears. And
since he was bearing the good
news of a good treaty, he was
eagerly greeted. The fact is
that his presence in Japan at
that critical moment prevented
a political upheaval which
would have overthrown the
Yoshida government. In contrast with MacArthur's attitude
of almost imperial detachment Dulles went about
meeting representatives of all
shades of political opinion.

With the Japanese reassured
and quiet, the Ambassador
tackled our doubtful and reluctant allies, one after another. He journeyed to Australia and, after some argument, won over the government
there. Then he visited
the Philippines. He sent his
assistant, John Allison, to
Pakistan and India.

Then he went to England,
where he found the Labor
government determined to impose all sorts of restrictions
on Japan in what it conceived
to be the interests of British
trade.

The British were concerned
about the revival of the Japanese
shipbuilding industry
and of Japanese free access to
Asiatic markets. There were
contemptuous references in
the pro-Labor press about
Dulles "the carpetbagger." He
pointed out the facts, obvious
at least to Americans, that the
United States had almost
singlehandedly won the war
against Japan and that, since
the war, it had spent a great deal in aiding the island nation. Finally the British government agreed.

Then France was likewise
brought in line.
If our reluctant allies had
not agreed the United States
would have made a separate
peace with Japan.
The Soviet made its customary
blustery demands. But,
from the start Dulles denied
the Russians any participation.

Japan has enormous economic problems to solve before
it can attain prosperous
self-dependence. Its people are
willing to work, however, and
will be willing to rearm as
soon as it is economically
possible. With these problems
there must be sympathetic
help from the United States.
And we must meanwhile protect the Japanese with our
Navy and air power.

But one factor distinguishes
the Japanese from some of our
allies. Their credit was good
in prewar years. And by private borrowing in the United
States they can help themselves and not depend on gifts
or loans from our government. They will be inexpensive and very powerful allies.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.