A SECOND
GUESS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Anyone who tries to predict
the result of an election may
revise his estimate, so long as
he does so before the votes are
counted. For the temper of
an electorate may change,
events may intervene, and
closer study may bring about
a change of opinion in the observer himself. Finally, the
1948 "miracle" or "debacle"
has shaken the confidence of
every American political writer in his ability to see very far
ahead.
I want to take advantage of
this privilege to revise an
opinion. In an earlier column
I said that the fact that the
Liberal vote in Britain, now
restricted to 109 (it has since
become 107) candidates instead
of the 475 at the last election,
would be a very important
factor in today's result. I also
ventured a guess that the Conservatives might win by 75
seats or more. I want to explain and partially modify
those estimates.
★
This revision is made after
a long week end devoted to a
tiresome and meticulous study
of the detailed votes by constituencies in the 1950 election. In any election it is wise
for a student to avoid overall generalizations. The only
way to estimate an election is
to study each section, district,
or, in Britain, constituency
first. Then, after putting the
pieces together, a general
guess is possible. If we all
had done that in 1948, the election of Truman might have
been anticipated.
If we assume what most correspondents on the ground tell
us about the Liberal vote,
there would be 25 switches
from Labor to Conservative.
Since Labor elected 315 members and the Conservatives
298 in 1950, this would mean
290 Labor and 323 Conservative, or a margin of 33 seats.
(In Britain the word "majority" is used as we would use
"plurality" over here.) But
this is on the assumption that
one-third of all Liberals will
not vote and that two-thirds
of the rest will vote Conservative. This I now believe is
questionable, because in some
constituencies most of the
Liberals will turn Conservative, and in others they will
vote Labor. This makes the
influence of the unattached
Liberal vote doubtful.
★
But if we retain this doubtful assumption and then add
other factors, the "majority"
of Conservatives over Labor in
the new Parliament would be
more than 100 seats.
That brings us to the general picture. On that background, there are two factors
which point to a Conservative
gain and a Labor loss over the
whole country. The one is
the result of the by-elections
since February, 1950; the other
is the Gallup poll, which was
remarkably accurate in 1950.
In by-elections, the Conservative candidates in Conservative constituencies have
gained an average of 50% over
the 1950 result. In Labor constituencies, the Labor candidates have lost an average of
40%. The trend in these by-
elections, however, has indicated a lessening of the Conservative advantage since
January, 1951.
★
The Gallup poll published
on Oct. 18 shows a decline in
the Conservative majority over
Labor. It was then 50 to 45.5.
This trend if continued might
make it even today. But Labor
strength must on such a poll
be greater than the Conservatives to break even, and at
least five points better to get
even a small majority of seats.
Hence, to win, Labor must gain
not the 4.5 margin, but 7 or 8
points. This is hardly likely.
But if there is a switch today of only 1% as compared
with 1950, the switch of seats
would be 23, which would
give the Conservatives a majority over Labor, in the new
Parliament, of 29 seats. This
with the aid of 6 to 10 Liberal
members would be a fair
working majority.
★
If the switch is only 2%,
the new Parliament would
stand 266 Labor and 347 Conservatives, which, with the
Liberals, would fix the Conservative Party in power for
a long time.
These figures do not take
account of the Liberal vote in
places where they have no
candidate this time. If a majority of Liberals vote Conservative, the indicated majority
of Conservative seats would
be much higher—perhaps over
100.
All this is not a prediction.
It is merely a statement of a
few pertinent facts. Nobody
will know the story until tomorrow afternoon or Saturday.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.