MR. BOKE'S
CAREER
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In the midst of all the shooting at the San Francisco conference a local item in a newspaper came to my attention which provoked more than local interest.
It said that George L. Boke, regional director of the United States Bureau of Reclamation, who has been stationed in California since 1945, had resigned and had accepted a job with the State Department to work with the people of Iraq in developing the resources of that country.
There were two reasons why I decided that some further study of this incident was important. First, a man does not gladly quit a regional directorship in the Reclamation Bureau. It is a very important and responsible assignment.
Next, when a man is moved in our Federal bureaucracy from some other department to the State Department it generally means that some serious problem has developed in the original job.
My subsequent research revealed some interesting facts. According to a statement written by Sen. Sheridan Downey four years ago in his book, "They Would Rule the Valley," Boke possessed rather unusual qualifications for such an important job as regional director.
The Downey statement indicates that Boke spent some time as a youth at Antioch College and the University of Chicago. He apparently had scant formal training in engineering and economics. But his zeal for the brave new world attracted attention, for his rise in the bureaucracy after he entered government service in 1933 at the age of 21 was astonishing.
Henry Wallace and the planners in the Interior Department seem to have had profound respect for Boke's talents. He rose through the Indian Field Service and Soil Erosion Service.
Then in the war he was taken by Wallace into the famous Foreign Economic Administration and, by a turn which is almost ludicrous considering the Boke economic training, was made head economist. And then, when the Wallace show faded out, Boke became director of the great Region 2 of the Bureau of Reclamation which spends hundreds of millions and supervises one of our greatest reclamation areas.
★
The records of regional directors reveal that a great majority of them have been and are engineers of distinction and experience. But Boke apparently had great zeal for the burgeoning of government control and power, and that virtue in the Fair Deal can supply almost any deficiency in training.
But perhaps Boke was too zealous even for this regime, as the reports of the House Committee on Appropriations show. In line with the determination of the Federal government's intention to link up all the regions in a great, centralized authority, the Reclamation Bureau asked for the fiscal year 1948 money to build an electrical transmission line to link the great Shasta project with the Bonneville project in Washington and Oregon.
This the committee emphatically denied. The next year and the next authorization was again requested and each time it was made clear that Congress did not agree. In 1950 the House committee most positively said that such a line not only should not be built or authorized but that no survey or any other work should be done in preparation for it.
But regardless of this, the committee in its 1951 report states that it had received testimony that money had been spent in 1950 for surveys, and it demanded not only that this be stopped but that disciplinary action be taken.
The Senate members of the conference committee joined in these sentiments. The conclusions to be drawn from this account are, first, the remarkable way that bureaucrats can rise in the Federal government, if they subscribe with sufficient enthusiasm to the socialistic policies in favor there and, second, the determination of the bureaucracy to bypass representative government in its efforts to take us all over. The transfer of Boke to Iraq will not end this, for there are thousands of other Bokes to carry on.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.