PEACE WITH JAPAN
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
While doubt and delay still linger in Continental Europe, the Japanese are ready and anxious to defend themselves against Communist aggression. All that remains to be done before Japanese rearmament becomes a reality is a peace treaty with the United States and such other allied powers as are willing to join. Preparation for a treaty was entrusted to John Foster Dulles, who spent some weeks early this year in Japan and Australia. In the time since his return, progress has been made. In comparison with Europe, this problem is relatively simple. The United States is free to act alone if necessary. But it is desirable that Australia, New Zealand and Great Britain join, if they will. Soviet Russia cannot impose a veto, regardless of how loudly it may protest. And since the Chinese situation remains as it is, there could be no reason to wait for the inclusion of either of the rival governments of that country. The joint interests of the United States and Japan in the Far East are obvious. Japan is the only power over there with the manpower, the industrial potential and the will to resist Communist aggression.
★
In the Korean war it has been amply demonstrated that Japan regards its interests as identical with those of the United States, for perhaps never in modern times has a nation used as a base of war operations a country with which it is still technically at war, with the full and devoted co-operation of the government and people. An example of that co-operation is the fact, recently published, that our Air Force uses thousands of Japanese workers in land maintenance and no case of sabotage has appeared. In providing for their self-defense, the Japanese will need for a long time the support of our Air Force and Navy. We shall also have to help supply Japanese industry with many kinds of raw materials. They will in turn permit us to have air and naval bases. But their incredible energy and industrial capacity can work wonders in a short time. They need shipping, but their shipyards are still the best in Asia.
★
The present governments of Australia and New Zealand seem ready to join in a treaty. The Labor Party of Australia has always been anti-Japanese and may cause trouble. But it is presently out of power. Britain may view with some reluctance the restoration of Japanese shipping. But without shipping, Japan would wither and die. There will be threatening gestures by the Russians in Siberia and the Sakalin Islands. But this is a risk that must be assumed. For unless the Soviet wants to start a world war, it will not attack Japan. And if it does intend to cast the fatal die, there are other places around the world where more favorable advantage might be gained. The Dulles mission was under the auspices of the State Department, and it may be assumed that that branch of government favors going ahead. The Defense Department apparently wants to delay the treaty till the Korean war is over. But since the President authorized the mission, there is hope that quick action may be had on at least one side of the world.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.