'An Insatiable Appetite
for Unenforceable Law'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The citizen who knows politics only by hearsay and headlines may wonder why nothing ever comes after these widely publicized "probes" of contributions to political campaigns. To him it may seem that political finances are like the weather—everybody talks about them, but nobody ever does anything about them.
The answer to his question is simple. In the first place, the people who make these investigations are almost entirely moved by a hope of political advantage. They are only about 1% sincere in their efforts to solve a problem. They even doubt whether there is any problem to be solved.
*
Moreover, they know that if they devise means of legally controlling campaign contributions they will be slashing their own political throats. For they must be elected, and they know that it takes money to conduct a campaign. The "they" in this current probe of the 1950 Taft election are the Hon. Margaret Chase Smith, Mike Monroney, Thomas Hennings Jr., Guy Gillette, and Robert C. Hendrickson.
They know in this case that if the Taft campaign cost a lot of money the Ferguson effort cost as much or more. They know, finally, that "slush funds" do not win elections. Certainly, this particular election was not bought with money.
Why then, the inquiring citizen may ask, do we have laws regulating the amount, source, and use of money in political campaigns?
The answer here lies in part in the insatiable appetite of Americans to acquit themselves of moral responsibility by passing unenforceable laws. The rest of the answer is a real desire on the part of honest people to curb the use of money, to compel people who are running campaigns to use reasonable discretion, and to prevent special interests such as corporations from using stockholders' money in campaigns. But no law yet devised can prevent undercover money from being used.
For there is no clear line that can be drawn between official organizations and committees and unofficial, unnamed auxiliaries. A great deal of the money used in any campaign simply cannot be traced to its source.
For example, I remember well a comment made during the jollification at Roosevelt headquarters on election night, 1932. A very happy man said that he gave a sum running into six digits and added that no one would ever know where it came from. The late Charley Michelson, in his book, "The Ghost Talks," wrote an amazing chapter on Democratic finances in New Deal days. He said that the Hatch Act imposed various restrictions and limitations and "it took all the ingenuity of the strategy board to evade these." And then this cynical but lovable man told us of some ingenious devices.
Laws and probes are useful, but the real preservation of the public interest lies in the very nature of a modern campaign and the common sense that must govern it. Elections cannot be bought. There is great danger in an oversupply of money. A show of opulence loses many votes.
*
Moreover, it is not as easy to get money in a Republican campaign as it seems. I visited Taft's money raiser in that campaign and he spoke with great anxiety about how difficult it was to get enough for even the bare necessities of the campaign.
What really won for Taft were a good press, indefatigable campaigning by the candidate, and many little volunteer groups that made direct contact with voters. A good house-to-house worker is more valuable than a lot of money contributed to a campaign fund.
Talk about slush funds is just campaign oratory, and this Taft probe is a bit of drama that deceives no one.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.