Latin America Should
Contribute to Defense
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

I hope someone will enlighten me on a subject that has been causing me a great deal of concern. Why, amid all this talk about manpower to defend the free world against Soviet Communism, has there been no mention of the potential of fighting manpower in Latin America? Most of those countries are no longer infant powers. Their aggregate population is about 117,000,000. Together they might muster an army of half or more than half that of a fully mobilized United States. The population of Brazil alone is larger than that of France. The military and naval forces of these nations vary greatly in size and presumably in efficiency. But present forces are no measure of possible mobilized strength. The Latin American countries have lived quietly—so far as external threats are concerned—in the shadow of the protection of the United States. Their isolation from foreign entanglements resembles that of the United States in the 19th century. But since the world is now on its way to the status of an armed camp they, too, should be called upon to put their respective establishments on a semiwar footing.

*

The threat is serious, if we are to believe the urgent warnings of Eisenhower, Dewey, and our military leaders. For we are told that if Europe falls the Soviet will approach us by way of North Africa and South America. Hence the Latin Americans should contribute to our effort to prevent the fall of Europe. This contribution might not be through a direct participation in a Western European army. These countries are not members of the North Atlantic alliance. But if the Soviet should choose to move to the south and southwest, through the Middle East and North Africa, we shall have a Mediterranean and South Atlantic challenge.

The answer to that would be a South Atlantic, African and Mediterranean alliance similar to the one now existing in the north. The stupendous job of contributing men for Europe, for the Far Eastern alliance now proposed by John Foster Dulles, and for the Mediterranean, too, would not only overtax our manpower but break our economy. Taft and Hoover have both made unanswerable arguments on that point.

*

Moreover, we cannot, if we have any regard for the future of our American manhood, afford to use for this purpose only the young men now available in the United States. It would not only overburden a whole generation of young men to put 6, 8, or 10,000,000 in uniform for several years, but it would be grossly unfair to expect these boys to save the world while great numbers of Latin Americans live out their lives in peaceful pursuits. Perhaps a part of the answer is to be found in the reluctance of our military leaders to attempt the training and equipping of masses of men recruited from Latin America—men who do not speak our language and who might be more difficult to organize in a composite army. Our officers prefer the more easily trained and manageable American boys. But with the armed forces dipping down to the 18-year olds and with a service period of more than two years, we already face a tremendous sacrifice. Our military and diplomatic leaders should shoulder the problem of bringing in these Latin-American allies, of calling upon them for contributions of men and money, and of organizing them in a defense not of our country alone but of all the Western Hemisphere. The threat is to them as well as to us. Hence, the burden is for them as well as for us.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.