A BALANCE
OF POWER
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Hans Morgenthau is a professor at the University of Chicago, a naturalized citizen whose intellectual roots lie in Western Europe. He was born and educated in Germany, practiced law there and has since taught international relations in various institutions in Switzerland, Spain and the United States.
★
He has written a book, just published, entitled "In Defense of the National Interest." It is addressed to Americans and the salty, severe advice he gives us might well be pondered, even though there seems to be little chance that it will be followed.
Never have we been so frustrated, confused and divided in our feelings about our national duty in this imperfect and exasperating world. We have been fighting for all these months in a war whose purpose was dimly conceived by those who determined our participation. We cannot find in the vast volume of testimony gathered in five weeks by the Senate committees any indication that our government clearly knows why we are continuing that war or what we will do if we win it or how we will know whether we have won it.
Our Commander in Chief has removed the commander in that war because he was, so the Secretaries and the generals say, out of line with our policy over there. But five weeks of explanation have not clearly described what that policy was or whether MacArthur violated it.
Meanwhile in various ways the administration has adopted or is adopting three of MacArthur's prescriptions.
And after this long year of fumbling we learn that 140,000 American casualties are the price we have paid.
In Europe matters move slowly. Despite our alarm Western Europe refuses to believe in the reality of a Russian attack.
Meanwhile we are tearing each other apart at home with dissent and we are bleeding our economy for a possible war.
★
Morgenthau traces our failure in foreign policy to four sources: our utopianism, our legalism, our sentimentalism and our neoisolationism.
The first three of these can be summed up in the naive belief that after complete victory national interests can safely be merged in a perfect, peaceful reign of law.
Finally neoisolationism results from the disappointment produced by utopianism, legalism and sentimentalism. The old isolationist said, "We will have nothing to do with the world." The neoisolationist would deal with the world, but only on his own terms.
★
Morgenthau's prescription is that we frankly face the fact that peace in the past has been maintained by balanced power, with recognized spheres of influence. Therein lies the fulfillment of national interest.
In the present instance that means a settlement with Russia as to where our respective interests lie. Perhaps that is what we are working toward, but our difficulty is to decide for ourselves where our interests lie.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.