THE JUNGLE
FIGHT
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
As the great MacArthur controversy proceeds it becomes
increasingly evident that the
real struggle is not among military men but between MacArthur and the State Department,
*
And since the State Department is now on the defensive
we must expect to witness typical State Department methods
of fighting. These methods are
formidable, and they have existed for a long, long time.
Acheson is merely the present
embodiment of this system.
There have already appeared
in the press what are represented to be the minute details of the Truman-MacArthur
meeting at Wake Island. The
authenticity of these has already been denied by MacArthur's spokesman, Gen. Whitney. There will be a succession
of these indirect jabs at the
general. The public cannot
learn the truth through such
hidden sources, operating as
they do without responsibility
and without risk of cross-examination.
*
Only a person who has
served in the State Department or in that part of the
press which covers that tangled sector of official Washington can know how vicious
and potent this form of fighting can be.
It is the business of Washington correspondents to get
the news, and news is not always confined to official public statements and press conferences. There is available to
the press a vast number of
personal contacts and the like.
There is little restraint upon
important State Department
officials about discrimination
in the treatment of their correspondent friends. They give
broad interpretations privately — what they call "background" — and for which they
enjoy anonymity. Honorable
newspapermen respect these
confidences, but the information thus acquired finds its
way into the news,
*
There are, however, news
gatherers who dig deeper than
this and who have less respect
for truth and honorable methods. There are hidden contacts with disgruntled, susceptible employees. Occasionally
these are discovered and somebody is removed, but the business goes on. For in a huge,
rambling bureaucracy there
will always be weak and wicked spots.
When a great majority of
the members of a department
are fighting against the same
person, who may be an official in the organization itself,
the meanness of these attacks
defies description. Bits of unverified gossip emerge; private
expense accounts are given out
with the intention of discrediting in personal and petty ways
the object of vengeance.
*
Now, since Acheson is the
perfect and not-too-gentle
knight of State Department
practices, and since he is fighting for his life, we may expect to see some strange jungle
fighting.
That places the responsibility upon Congress to place the
true facts before the country.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.