Utah's Governor Shows
the Road to Economy
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

SALT LAKE CITY—In
1948 when, despite earlier
portent, the Democratic Party
elected a President, a Congress, and many Governors,
the State of Utah elected the
first Republican Governor in
24 years. The election of J.
Bracken Lee was something
more than a party upset. It
was a recognition by the
voters of personal qualities
in this man that have been
characteristic of this sturdy,
thrifty State since the Mormons first came here a century ago. For Lee was the
only Republican elected on
the State ticket, and when he
took office he faced a Democratic majority in the Legislature.

The character of the man
that had been shown in his
business career and in his
service as Mayor of the city
of Price soon revealed itself
in the 1949 session of the
Legislature.
Large appropriations proceeded as usual and soon met
with a barrage of vetoes.
Pressure groups of all sorts—
the old-age pensioners, welfare societies, the school lobby, and other advocates of
spending—were vociferous in
opposition.

*

But the Governor continued
to veto expenditures and,
what is more, he carried his
case to the people very effectively. Even the business
and professional men who
sponsor the Utah Symphony
Orchestra were rebuffed when
they asked the State to foot
the deficit. The Governor won
his fight for economy because it became apparent that
the public was prepared to accept some denials for the sake
of economic stability.
A very good indication of
the public esteem enjoyed by
Gov. Lee and the turn of the
State toward more conservative policies came in 1950.
Sen. Elbert Thomas, a spender
and Truman wheel horse, was
opposed in his campaign for
the Senate by Wallace Bennett, who stood for all the
things that have been regarded by the Fair Deal as
political liabilities. For Bennett is a conservative businessman who has been president of the National Association of Manufacturers. Gov.
Lee vigorously campaigned
for Bennett. The election of
Bennett was not only a personal victory for the candidate but a clear endorsement
of Lee's conservative policies.
In the 1951 session of the
Legislature, Lee tackled a
very much more difficult form
of economy. Noting that the
costs of higher education had
risen 300% in eight years and
that enrollment in State colleges and the university was
declining, he asked the Legislature to cut appropriations.

*

This represents the maximum in courage for a State
Governor, for these institutions are not only the cherished favorites of the people,
but they are backed by a tremendously powerful lobby.
The Governor refused to approve the appropriations and
called back the Legislature in
June with a demand for economy. The result has been a
compromise. But there is good
evidence that the Governor
has lost none of his public
support.
In the national picture Gov.
Lee represents an issue that
may well challenge both parties in 1952, the issue of
States' rights. In Governors'
conferences and elsewhere,
Lee has been a stalwart opponent of the growth of Federal power.
He was an outstanding opponent of the proposal for a
Columbia Valley Administration and of other great Federal projects designed to deny
Western States their control
over their own resources.
We shall hear a great deal
from Gov. Lee on this theme
in the next year, and the Republican Party may well be
challenged in 1952 to defend
those rights of the States
which have been abandoned
by the very Democratic Party that once made them an
article of faith.
On this issue common
ground can be found for Republicans and the conservative Democrats of the South.
Bracken Lee is not just another Governor. He embodies
principles to which a distracted nation may turn next
year.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.