THINGS WE
OUGHT TO
KNOW
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

A great many serious people
are saying these days, mostly
in private, something like
this:
"I am not by any means
taking sides in this more or
less personal issue between
Truman and MacArthur. In
fact, I believe that both ought
to be removed. But this is no
way to determine a grave
issue of foreign policy.
"There is something very disturbing
in the violence of public reaction
in favor of MacArthur. One reason
why it is dangerous is that the cheering
multitudes are activated as much by
admiration for the past achievements
of the man as for the specific policy
that he advocated when he was removed.
"But such a burst of public sentiment
may be interpreted as favoring the bombing
of Manchurian bases and the unleashing
of Chiang Kai-shek's army. The fervor
for secession in the South and the fervor
for abolition in the North before the dread
issue was drawn at Ft. Sumter were examples
of the wrong way to make a grave decision.
There was also the silly victory over Spain
after the blowing up of the Maine.

*

"We may in fact be witnessing at this
moment a test of whether a democratic
government with free and unrestrained public
opinion is capable of survival under international
strains as great as they are now. Especially
when they are personalized, as this one, as a
choice between Truman and MacArthur."
There is a great deal of truth in this, but
there is also a great question about the premises
in such a point of view.
It is true that the unprecedented greeting for
MacArthur proceeds from mixed motives. People
are cheering for a man who over a period of 10
years has done more for this country than has
any general since George Washington.
Certainly it has been a greater achievement
than that of Grant. For MacArthur not only won
an infinitely more complex war than did Grant,
but he won it despite handicaps imposed from
Washington.

*

How much of the acclaim is a vote for his
views on the future prosecution of the war in
Asia no one can tell.
But I cannot agree that the public is not
entitled to demand, however vociferously, that
we have full information about past events and
that MacArthur is the only person from whom
they can get that information.
It is not so much what we don't know about
foreign policy as what we do know that disturbs
us. We want to know more about how and why
Red China was permitted to dominate China, Gen.
Wedemeyer, who could tell us, is muzzled by the
administration's orders which MacArthur is alleged
to have violated.

*

We want to know whether MacArthur approved
of ground action in Korea and, if not, whether
his advice was made known to the President.
We want to know all about the orders he received
in pursuing the Korean war up to the moment
of his removal.
These items would not upset any diplomatic
plans, but they would enable the public to pass
judgment on its own government. They would also
enable public opinion, if it would, to force the
removal of Acheson and Marshall if they are, as
is suspected, the authors of our Asiatic humiliation.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.