A "calculated risk" apparently means a chance of failure or disaster which is assumed after a full appraisal of all the circumstances involved. In choosing either Taft or Eisenhower, political leaders and other influential people are facing such risks. At this stage, however, it is apparent that Taft people are more realistic in their appraisal, perhaps because they have been reminded so often of the difficulties of electing their man. Eisenhower supporters are apparently taking the election for granted. Taft himself and his active supporters are experienced, realistic politicians. They know, at least Taft knows, what failure tastes like. They know the deadly perils that lie in wait for a candidate after he is nominated. And despite all this, they are staking everything on success. But in doing so, they are able to take measures which lessen the risk. Since they know that their man's major obstacle in winning the nomination is the widespread belief that he lacks the glamour or personal charm that Eisenhower admittedly possesses, they seek three ways to meet this. First, they seek to exploit every bit of glamour or charm that their man has. Second, they discount the need for glamour or charm in a candidate. Third, they seek to reveal in their candidate other virtues which bear upon his capacity to conduct a good campaign. The first and second of these methods may seem to be inconsistent, but in politics consistency is not always a virtue. That they will succeed in this effort is at this writing no certainty. For the deep-seated conviction of many, many people confronts an observer on all sides that, while Taft would be a fine President, he cannot be elected. But it may be assumed that the Taft people will make progress in dissipating skepticism. On the other hand, Eisenhower supporters seem wholly unaware of the dangers that confront their man. There is a risk they must know but they have failed to calculate it. They are not facing the realities and trying to lessen their risks. They do seem to know one objection commonly leveled against the general—namely, his failure to have a record of his convictions on the many issues that he must face as a President. On that score they are accepting the vagueness of Eisenhower's declarations on public policy as a distinct advantage. They seem to feel that the more general his expressed views, the more they will appeal to widely different people. At the moment, that is true. The people who are publicly supporting Eisenhower range all the way from the extreme right of Ernest Weir of the National Steel Corp. to the ultraleft of Stanley Isaacs, a member of the New York City Council. All these people see in the general the image of their desire. He is in truth at the moment all things to all men. Sometime, however, the reality of Eisenhower the politician will emerge. And a great many people will be dissatisfied, not to say disillusioned. That moment will come when the general becomes a civilian again and begins to speak in political terms. Twice in our time a candidate has lost his chance of election in his very first speech after his nomination. The first was Charles Evans Hughes at Carnegie Hall in 1916. The other was Wendell Willkie in Rushville in 1940. The supporters of Eisenhower must face this grave risk either before or after the Republican convention. But there is little evidence that they have accurately calculated the danger or have taken measures to meet it.