Eisenhower Marks End
of the Economists' Reign
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The importance of experienced and successful businessmen in the Eisenhower regime may well bring a vast change in the character of economists who wield influence in making government policy.
For 20 years, the influence of economics has been much greater than was wise or wholesome. Perhaps it would be more correct to say that the trouble has been not so much the importance assumed by economists, but the kind of economists who have been important.
It is certainly true that never in our history has a single group or profession, hitherto confined to academic life, enjoyed such prominence in public affairs. Like many other trends of the past two decades, this originated in the depression. Our economic plumbing had got out of order and it seemed that the best experts to call in were the experts in economics. The statesmen who summoned them were perhaps not aware that there were many kinds of economists, with an infinite variety of theories.
But Roosevelt, who always proceeded by trial and error, at first called all sorts and conditions. Then a process of natural, or rather Rooseveltian, selection took place. Conservative economists soon dropped out. But those with alluring and unconventional "cures" for old, stubborn problems were embraced and kept. These favored ones brought in others of their ilk, until the economist host spread into many departments, bureaus and commissions.
It must not be assumed that politicians like Roosevelt seized upon these theoreticians because they were of a scientific or academic mind. They were first and last concerned with votes. And they perceived in this quasi-scientific discipline, with its quickness with figures, its bright-colored charts, and its slick semantics, a political instrument of great potentialities. With this magic at hand, politicians could get away with their old tricks under the innocent mark of "scientific" certainty or necessity.
Of course, the most useful doctrine was that of compensatory spending, of which John Maynard Keynes was a major prophet and hundreds of American academicians were disciples. Its great trick was a famous "multiplier K," which was used in the writings of Keynes.
Rufus Tucker, economist for General Motors Corp., in a delightful article on "Symbolism in Economics," has this to say of K:
"This is supposed to represent the relation between increases in consumption and concomitant increases in investment as national income increases; and the conclusion is drawn that by increasing investment by a certain amount the national income can be increased by K times that amount...but this reasoning overlooks the proved and obvious fact that the relation between consumption and investment is not a fixed factor deriving from inherent and immutable characteristics of human nature or organized society; it has varied enormously over the years and from place to place."
Tucker makes this profoundly important comment about the perversion of economic symbols by politics. He says that while K may be an interesting toy for students of pure theory, it is a dangerous instrument for guiding national policy.
To apply a hackneyed expression, economists should be "on tap, not on top."
That is where the businessmen summoned by Eisenhower are likely to keep them.