A Keynoter Veteran Says
MacArthur's Was Best
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CHICAGO, July 8—I have attended a good many national conventions in my life and have been exposed to spectacles of insincere and shady dealing which might well have brought upon a severe case of chronic cynicism.

The famous "voice from the sewers" Democratic convention of 1940 was perhaps the low point in hypocrisy.
But somehow I have survived perhaps with my faith in Santa Claus impaired, but still with a strong hope that somehow there are leaders who can point to sane and honest ways and people who will follow. This convention, however, is a severe test for me not because there are such dreadfully bad things going on but because there is so much striving to make political hay out of the straw of phony morality.

Witnessing Antics
In short we are witnessing the antics of people who would have you believe that they have discovered the—good word—morality. To put it another way; there has probably never been a clean convention, but with the exception of the Republican show of 1912, a convention in which there have been so many accusations of dirty work.

At the moment, as the second day passes, the result is still in doubt. After a somewhat comprehensive series of talks with experienced newspapermen, things look like this: The defeat of the Taft forces on the Brown amendment to the Langlie amendment was an injury to Taft.

Swayed by Eisenhower
A veteran politician pointed out that about half of these delegates have never been delegates before. They are much more likely to be impressed by the show of strength against the Brown amendment than is justified by the facts. Hence they are swayed by the Eisenhower assertions that Taft has been mortally injured.

The net of it is that the advantage has passed from Taft and that his forces are now confronted with the task of stopping Eisenhower. It is said that some Taft managers, notably Coleman of Wisconsin, opposed this test of strength. Still it would be foolish to believe that Taft cannot win and win on the first ballot.

A second question widely discussed today has been the worth and effect of MacArthur's keynote speech. Newspapermen grow cynical about speeches. They will tell you that the MacArthur speech was somewhat disappointing. They explain the meaning of "disappointing" by saying that it did not live up to expectations.

It did not stampede the convention. But no one in his right mind expected it to stampede the convention.
My own knowledge of keynote speeches, and that has extended to the giving of advice and editorial assistance to a number of those documents in the past, is this: A keynote speech is something to be gotten over with. It is a ceremonial effort that does not sway the votes of delegates nor win elections.

Only Two Outstanding
According to my own memory of the history of convention oratory there have been only two real examples of speeches which won a nomination for the speaker. The one was Bryan's Cross of Gold speech and the other Garfield's speech at the convention of 1880. Neither was a keynote speech. The first was on the adoption of the platform and the second was a speech nominating John Sherman.

This I can say with assurance of MacArthur's speech. It was the finest example of that sort of speech that I have heard and it had the best reception by the hardened habitués of convention I have ever seen.

As a basic indictment of the opposition it will, I venture to say, not be surpassed in the campaign that lies ahead. MacArthur may or may not be selected for a place on the ticket. But he is nevertheless the most colorful, distinguished and deserving figure on the American political stage today. His only rival in distinguished service and richly deserved respect is the Republican who speaks tonight—Herbert Hoover.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.