What Justices Overlook
in Loyalty Oath Cases

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

When, in an important case like that involving the Oklahoma loyalty oath, the Supreme Court renders a unanimous decision, it is news. For the differences in the court on questions of ideology are growing sharper day by day.

In this case, however, the issue drawn by the law of Oklahoma moved those judges who usually vote conservative-ly to join with their radical brethren. The issue was not whether a State might or might not prescribe some sort of test of loyalty as a condition to employment as a teacher in a State institution. The issue was whether this oath was a fair way to draw the line of loyalty.

The Oklahoma test was a real oath. Among other things it compelled State employees, including staff members of State schools, to swear that they were not and had not been members of “any agency, party, organization, association, or group whatever which has been officially determined by the United States Attorney General or other authorized public agency of the United States to be a Communist front or subversive organization.”

★

Justice Clark in the opinion of the court pointed out that this would bar from public employment an innocent person who at some time in the past had joined an organization which later was declared to be subversive. And even if the innocent person had abandoned his membership upon learning of the true nature of the organization, he would nevertheless be barred.

A great many perfectly loyal and devoted Americans joined outfits a few years ago which later were taken over by subversive people. And some may have remained members because they were quite unaware of the action of the Attorney General in characterizing their organizations as subversive. It would seem to be quite unfair to exclude such people from public employment.

We can agree with the majority of the court, however, without agreeing with the extreme views which Justice Black expressed in his concurring opinion. He preached a sermon about how government might punish treasonable acts but should not limit “thought and speech of the unorthodox.”

★

This obiter dictum of Black must be challenged, especially in the case of people who are employed at public expense to teach in schools, colleges and professional schools. For their “act” is in what they say. And if what they say is for that is what they are paid the philosophy of Communism, it means that they believe in Communism.

If they believe in Communism, they are not qualified to teach, because Communism does not give its adherents the right to search for truth, either in Russia or here in our schools. And a teacher who is not free to search for truth is not a qualified teacher. It is Communism that shackles the mind, not, as Justice Black puts it, the law which we make to disqualify Communist teachers.

Nor can I go so far as to agree with Justices Frankfurter and Douglas, who assert that only “solid threats to our kind of government” should be noted by the law. Again, as in the case of Justice Black, these justices are confusing the right of an ordinary citizen to have views of his own with the right of a State to prescribe qualifications for teachers. I am willing to let Browder lecture on Communism in a hall of his own hiring, but I am not willing to have my tax money pay him to teach my own children.

There is a distinction here that neither Legislature nor courts seem to comprehend.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.