LINCOLN, Neb. — During
the great Missouri River flood
a short time ago a Republican
Congressman addressed a telegram to President Truman
asking why he did not seize
the river. The Congressman
should be reminded that seizing the Missouri River is exactly what President Truman
has been trying to do for a
long time. And every time a
flood appears he renews his
fight.
He and his predecessor tried
unsuccessfully to foist upon
the people of the Missouri Valley a superauthority modeled
upon the TVA but the people
of the valley, speaking through
their Governors, Congressmen
and Senators, have refused to
accept this form of Federal
control. It is therefore most interesting that this State of Nebraska, in the very heart of the
Missouri Valley, sent to the
Senate for many years George
Norris, the father of the TVA
and the great spokesman for a
series of valley authorities
over the nation. The State of
Nebraska at last rejected Norris and by every means within
its power is opposing the Norris idea of a valley authority.
At some time in the long battle over the control of the Missouri Valley there appeared
the famous Pick-Sloan plan,
which would have divided the
responsibility for planning in
the valley between the Army
engineers and the Bureau of
Reclamation. The people of
Nebraska, in common with the
people of most of the Missouri
Valley States, are against the
Pick-Sloan plan, too.
The simple fact is that these
rugged individualists object to
any form of Federal control of
the development of their resources. They are seeking a
plan by which they can cooperate with the Federal government and still maintain a maximum control, at the local level,
of the resources that belong
to them. They are eternally
right in this stand.
Not only are the important
factors of local self-government and States’ rights involved in this resistance to
grandiose Federal dams and
public works but the simple
facts of engineering. For the
building of great dams on the
main stem of a river like the
Missouri will not cure floods
and soil destruction but aggravate them. This was abundantly proved in the great floods of
1951 and 1952.
The sound procedure in controlling floods and in soil conservation is to move back to
ward the headwaters and
then, when the sources are
covered, to consider the utility
and necessity of major dams.
In the Salt Creek-Wahoo
River watershed in Eastern
Nebraska, an area twice the
size of Rhode Island, a concerted drive is going on by a well-
organized and representative
group to develop flood control
and soil conservation with a
maximum of local participation. A major spokesman for
this idea is Raymond A.
McConnell Jr., editor of the Nebraska State Journal, who said
this of the Salt-Wahoo plan:
“One way to establish sound
public policy is from the top
down. The better way, I think,
and the only way that sticks in
a democracy, is from the bottom up.
“Since we can define a natural watershed as large or as
small as you choose to regard
it, we chose as our determining principle that the watershed in which planning is done
on a co-ordinate, over-all basis
should be (1) however large
as is necessary for a technically sound job of planning
and engineering, in conformity
with the objective you seek,
and (2) at the same time small
enough to allow a maximum of
local control and participation
in setting the pace of the work
and allocating fairly the cost
of upkeep.”
This statement is a good expression of a sound and workable principle.
KNOW THE
ANSWERS?
1—What famous ocean route
was discovered by Vasco da
Gama? (a) The route to the
West Indies around Cape
of Good Hope; (b) the route
to the West Indies around
Cape Horn; (c) the route to
China by the Arctic Ocean.
2—Sylvia Pankhurst was associated with what movement?
(a) Prohibition of liquor; (b)
prevention of tuberculosis; (c)
Women’s suffrage.
3—What is the principal ore
of lead? (a) Bauxite; (b) galena; (c) cryolite.
4—George Bernard Shaw is
author of the story (a) “Lalla
Rookh;” (b) “Androcles and
the Lion;” (c) “Hypatia.”
Answers: 1—(a); 2—(c); 3—
(b); 4—(b).
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.