COLUMBIA, S.C.-The immediate reactions of southern leaders to Truman's withdrawal might well be what Gov. Byrnes and Gov.-elect Kennan of Louisiana said after they heard the news. First, that Russell should now be regarded as the leading Democratic candidate, North and South. Second, that the South demands a platform as well as a candidate in the true Democratic tradition. It is to be hoped that both of these points will be vigorously pressed by Russell himself and all his supporters. For what we have now in the Democratic Party is an atomization of sentiment and support. There will be a dozen or more candidates, all claiming some part of that aggregate whose only common denominator is the name Democratic. Of these, Russell can claim the largest body of support. He is, moreover, the only one in the opinion of this commentator who measures up to the requirements of the Presidential office.
Nominations, however, are not won on merit alone. Time and chance and many other things determine the result. One of the factors will be the capacity of the Russell management to press the claims of their man in the North. In every State outside the Solid South there are conservative Democrats who have for many years been at odds with the policies of Roosevelt and Truman. Some of them have voted Republican but with misgivings and reluctance. Some have refrained from voting, some have supported the Democratic Party in local and Congressional elections but have rejected Presidential candidates. Some, like James A. Farley, have supported "the ticket" without specifications. Others have supported Roosevelt and Truman because of foreign affairs.
There are a great many of these conservative northern Democrats. Seven million Northerners voted in 1924 for as conservative a candidate as John W. Davis when they had in Robert M. La Follette a more radical alternative. The survivors of this group and many new voters are the sort of people who could ardently support Russell. Russell has a number of very important points in his favor which cannot be matched by other aspirants. He has been a successful, economical and popular State Governor. He has served in the Senate for 20 years. No other Senator could make a more intelligent or persuasive appeal to farmers, north or south. His position on foreign affairs would win votes in the internationalist East but not cost votes in the Midwest. He is profoundly committed to constitutional government and to economic and political liberty. Here is a candidate of importance. A Democratic Party which sorely needs to be relieved of the stamp of Trumanism could not do better than to nominate him.