MORE VIEWS
THAN NEWS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In my previous column I offered some evidence of the poor reporting of the American Presidential campaign by Alistair Cooke of the Manchester Guardian and the BBC. Since the election he laments but hardly reports. For in the depths of his disappointment over the defeat of Mr. Stevenson, over whom he spread the choicest flowers of his writing art during the campaign, he takes refuge in caustic and frequently inaccurate reflections on America, American politics and the American scene. There is no question about his shock, for on Nov. 7 he broadcast this: "We held onto our hats and grabbed the nearest tree."

★

He may have held onto his hat, but his head was swept away. Not so his heart, which he had given to Stevenson. Of the loser, he spoke of "brave but glistening eyes," and followed by a reference to Ike's "howling audience." Election night was "a dance of death," an "orgy." Then there was a wholly unnecessary lot of stuff about the pollsters. He overlooked the fact that local polls did very well in predicting the outcome of the election. Finally, he dealt this bit to America for what it did to him and to Stevenson: "Europe stirred at the sight of an unknown man, out of Illinois, who brought a gallantry of bearing and a careful eloquence to his campaign--both of which are possibly more familiar to Europe than here."

★

Let us pass on to his broadcast on Nov. 28, after he had rallied somewhat but his reflections were still sprinkled with digs about those unbelievable Americans among whom it is his sad task to labor. He takes note of the criticism addressed to himself and other British correspondents and confesses that they did "fall at the feet of Gov. Stevenson." But, he adds, so did "a big majority of American reporters." This is simply not so. Even the Newsweek poll of 50 "Washington correspondents" went for Stevenson by a majority of only two. Mr. Cooke forgets that there are political reporters in many American cities--perhaps 200 or 300--who are first rate, more realistic and better informed about public opinion than their brethren in New York and Washington. Prior to the recent election these reporters and their editors were positively not guilty of the errors of Mr. Cooke, et al.

★

But the following comment of Mr. Cooke I cannot overlook. Stevenson, he says, "satisfied the hankering of Europeans in America for a man who is what they call 'civilized.'" This "hankering" Mr. Cooke does not wholly approve of; it means that the European exile here is "attracted by people who are imitations of the real thing he feels comfortable with at home." This is so revealing that it needs little comment. Perhaps the best answer was made by Emerson in 1837 in his address on "The American Scholar." In that classic he told Americans to stop imitating Europeans, to be themselves. Perhaps Mr. Cooke ought to get acquainted with a few people who are following Emerson's advice.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.