We Are Held Prisoner
by Our Own Prisoners
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
SANTA BARBARA—Among the many touches of irony that make this Korean war the most fantastic in which the United States has ever been engaged, two stand out distinctly. The first is the fact that our side has in a manner become the prisoner of its own prisoners. In that respect the capture of Gen. Dodd was symbolic. The second is that our own psychological warfare has boomeranged upon us.
★
For the blunders involved, the top administrators of Gens. MacArthur and Ridgway are responsible. Whether the supreme commanders themselves should be finally responsible is largely academic since they are no longer on the scene. It should be added that breaking Dodd and Coulson from brigadier general to colonel certainly cannot end the issue of responsibility.
It may be argued that if this prisoner of war question had not arisen, the Communists would have found another means to delay the negotiations and lengthen the war.
It can also be argued that a good many American boys are paying the penalty every day on the battle front for this tragic outcome of these negotiations. And the Communists are gaining time which is being effectively used to strengthen their military position.
Most of the 132,000 prisoners that we hold were captured in the great push to the north in the autumn of 1950. Many of these and others captured since were induced to surrender by our propaganda which had been carried over the lines in various ways.
Thus, we have a moral obligation not to send these people back where they would no doubt be killed for their lack of loyalty to Communism.
If we should forcefully repatriate them, our propaganda would never again be believed in China or Korea.
★
In the mass of humanity in the prisoner compounds at Koje-do there are all sorts of ethnic and ideological types. They are certainly not all Communists. There are not only North Korean and Chinese Communists but North Koreans who sympathize with South Korea. There are South Koreans who favor North Korea and also Chinese Nationalists.
This has occasioned terrific conditions. Intrigue, rioting and murder have prevailed. Dense crowding of the compounds has heightened the confusion. Six thousand were concentrated in the space of one city block. Since the Dodd fiasco there has been some improvement because our authorities have been scattering the prisoners to other places.
It would require substantial military force to repatriate these people, in addition to the moral and tactical issues involved.
★
Meanwhile, the shrewd Nam Il, advised and directed by the Chinese, some of whom no doubt were educated in international law in American universities, has raised the issue of the Geneva Convention, which requires the return of all prisoners after an armistice. That is another moral weakness for us because, while we did not ratify the convention, we did sign it.
That is about where the whole matter stands now, as the relentless and unceasing gunfire continues on the military front.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.