PERILS OF
TREATIES
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Among the many fantastic
projects, schemes and ideas
fostered by the former First
Lady, Eleanor Roosevelt, has
been the so-called Covenant
on Human Rights of the
United Nations.
This jumble of vague aspirations and cunningly contrived commitments grew out
of the declaration of human
rights actually adopted by the
Assembly some time ago. The
whole mess is still floating
around among the various
agencies and committees of
the United Nations. There is
no immediate danger of general agreement on its language,
but there is plenty of danger
that some time it may come,
with the approval of our
naive and incompetent managers of foreign policy, squarely before the Senate for approval in the form of a treaty.

*

If anything like it should ever be confirmed, we would witness, as Sen. George has said, an abandonment of the
form of government under which we have lived.
The vital point is that once these beguiled or beguiling representatives of ours commit themselves to such a declaration, and as a treaty embodying it is enacted, we have abandoned our constitutional rights. For a treaty becomes supreme law.
Sen. Bricker, joined by more than 50 other Senators, has introduced a proposed constitutional amendment to limit the effect of such agreements.
The spontaneous rallying to the Bricker proposal by Senators of both parties shows the deep misgivings that this business in the United Nations has evoked. The Senators feel, no doubt, as Bricker phrases it, that "at present the United Nations appears inspired by an ambition to define and to enforce by treaty the economic and political rights and duties of every human being in the world. The most comprehensive of these proposed treaties is the U.N. draft covenant on human rights."

*

Some of the inspiration behind this proposed amendment came from the American Bar Association. Patiently, constantly and with a demonstration of great legal ability, a committee of that body has been laboring on this subject for a long time.
The constitutional amendment proposed rules out completely any treaty or executive agreement that has to do with the rights of citizens of the United States under the Constitution. This simply means that these rights are matters that pertain exclusively to the relations between American citizens and their own government.
Moreover, the proposed amendment provides that no treaty or executive agreement shall "alter or abridge" the Constitution or laws of the United States unless expressly authorized by Congress.
Finally, it provides that executive agreements shall not be made "in lieu of treaties."
This amendment should be promptly submitted to the States and ratified. It will protect the institutions of this country from the foolish commitments of our diplomacy, from the President down to our representatives at the United Nations.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.