IT'S DEAD BUT IT WON'T LIE DOWN
That energetic brood of people who run our political affairs are full of ideas about reforming everything except their own methods.
In that field, primeval traditionalism and superstition prevail. F. D. R., the passionate exponent of hold experimentation, insisted on wearing the same battered hat in campaign after campaign. On his campaign train and in his entourage there were people whose only conceivable reason for being present was the fact that they had been there before.
Methods of campaigning remain the same despite the fact that in the last 30 years radio and television have created a revolution in methods of communication.
I shall omit any suggestions for the use of television and radio, although many could be made. I suggest only three means of reducing expense and energy, of sparing a harassed citizenry, of sharpening interest, and of getting into the record the essential issues on the basis of which the great November decision must be reached.
I have no great hope that this campaign will differ in any marked degree from any other that we have witnessed since the days of Bryan and McKinley. For the great tide of tradition is running against any changes in political methods. I am applying these suggestions to Eisenhower but they might with equal force be appropriate to Stevenson.
A first requirement would be a shorter campaign. The late Alfred E. Smith, in his campaigns for the Governorship of New York, broke from tradition by limiting his campaign to three weeks. Generally one week was spent in Western New York State, one in the north and central counties, and the final one in Greater New York City.
Since Smith was successful in four of his five campaigns, this policy has passed the pragmatic test. Despite the opinions of some New Yorkers, the Empire State is not so large as the United States. But five or six weeks of active campaigning should be sufficient for Eisenhower. He could very profitably stay in Denver until the middle of September, and then for the purpose of major speeches could fly or go by train to a number of selected spots, reserving the final week or two of the campaign for the big States of Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York and Massachusetts.
As candidate for President, he will need to develop about 10 or 12 topics in his speeches. The fewer the better, not only because the electorate can absorb only a certain amount of political wisdom, but because Eisenhower is not only short of knowledge of domestic issues himself but he is starting at a very late date to acquire such knowledge.
The long, lumbering train trips should be abandoned. Those cavalcades have grown to monstrous proportions. In addition to the press service radio and television personnel and dozens and dozens of special newspaper correspondents are carried on such junkets.
The amount of news is limited. After a while, insufferable boredom settles down on these purveyors of news, which they most often seek to extinguish by bottled goods, gossip and carping at the candidate and his managers.
BY RAYMOND
MOLEY
There is always the danger that local political potentates will be offended by the candidate. Some of them will feel that they have been permitted to travel a few score too few miles on the train, or that the automobiles in which they ride in the various cities are not sufficiently prominent.
In my judgment, the harm done by these trips outweighs the good. Then there is the enormous expense, not only to the party but to the press, radio and television.
Finally, the candidate should make not only fewer but shorter speeches. A few simple principles on each topic should be enough. Twenty minutes should be the limit. Let the remaining time be taken by other selected speakers or other forms of entertainment. All the remaining information that the candidate has to impart could be given in press conferences.
So here is for a shorter campaign, shorter and less cumbersome trips, and shorter speeches. These hopeful suggestions will not be realized but it cannot be amiss to set them down.
PRESS
VOTE FOR SENATOR BLAH!!
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.