FT. WORTH—Neville Penrose of this city, as chairman of the Good Neighbor Commission of the State of Texas, has devised and put into effect a simple but highly effective means of relieving the tensions that have from time immemorial afflicted the mutual relations of the people of Texas and their neighbors in and from the Republic of Mexico.

It is an interesting fact that it has generally taken a war to awaken the American people to the importance of easing the antagonisms that spring up between native Americans and their foreign-born neighbors. In World War I the so-called Americanization movement was started. That movement in its better forms was designed to assist recent immigrants from the various nations of Europe to adjust themselves to American life and also to teach Americans to understand and appreciate the values brought with them by these strangers within our gates.

It was in the stress of World War II that Texas seriously and officially acted to improve the state of affairs between the residents of the State who were either born in Mexico or whose forebears were born there and the other citizens of the State.

To that end, the Governor of the State, Coke Stevenson, appointed a Good Neighbor Commission, which began operations with a small grant from Nelson Rockefeller’s Federal Office of Inter-American Relations. Later, the State appropriated the funds to continue the work of the commission. In 1947 this agency was made permanent, and in 1949 Penrose was made chairman. Such agencies as this are not new. Nor is this the first time that active measures have been taken to improve the status of the Mexican-born in the Southwest. The interesting and perhaps original thing about this experiment is the means which Penrose has devised to make the job more efficient.

Realizing that to attempt to eliminate discriminations or other causes of irritation in local communities by bureaucrats moving in from the State capital was inadvisable, he suggested the creation of local groups called human relations councils.

There are now 40 or 50 of these, and they are organized under a State council under R. E. Smith, former head of the Good Neighbor Commission. If, for example, complaints come to the Good Neighbor Commission about a restaurant keeper who refuses service to Mexican-born patrons, no effort is made to bring official pressure against him. In fact, that would be impossible as well as impractical. Members of the local human relations council are asked to talk things over with the parties to the dispute and reach an agreeable adjustment.

The fruits of the work of this commission are not limited to better conditions in Texas and the other Southwestern States. The commission will have a profound effect in all the countries to the south. For nothing has so impaired our relations with Latin American countries as the stories that have gone down there about bad treatment of members of their nationalities in the United States. Moreover, there is a good deal that advocates of fair employment practices commissions on the Federal and local levels can learn from this Texas Good Neighbor Commission. Goodwill among men from the beginning of time has never been promoted by force, either of the sword or of the law. It is a matter of human contacts on the neighborhood and local level.