First of All, Colonel,
Let's Turn Them Out
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It was the shrewd suggestion of Kyle Palmer, whose wisdom concerning things political has illuminated the pages of the Los Angeles Times these many years, that every massive and political individualist at some time in his life toys with the idea of forming a new political party. The truth of this is strewn through the pages of American history. Jefferson, for example. Horace Greeley and other rugged souls created the Republican Party. Theodore Roosevelt had his turn. And so did even Henry Wallace, whose soul is not rugged but different from most. W. R. Hearst once set up a political party. We also know now that F. D. R., weary of the party to which he was espoused early in life and which had housed him and cooked his meals for eight years, decided after 1940 that he wanted a change and sent word to Wendell Willkie that together they might create a party in their own images.

Well, as Mr. Palmer notes, the inevitable urge has come to Col. Robert R. McCormick, who is growing weary of the fallibilities of his fellows and who finds time and fate hanging heavy on his hands. The colonel proposes a new, genuine American party to take the field in 1956 and to move forward free of all eastern internationalists and socialistic planners who presently plague the Republican Party. The colonel, who is not only an assiduous student of history but a man with a high sense of the dramatic, realizes that to form a party which would present its first candidate for the Presidency in 1956 would thus be celebrating the 100th anniversary of the nativity of the Republican Party. The colonel concludes sadly that that once stalwart champion of human liberty, the Republican Party, is now a seduced and disgraced aggregation of multiple manias.

The Republican Party, according to my memory, was created in 1854 and presented its first Presidential candidate in 1856. But it was built upon the complete ruin of the Whig Party. It was that tragic event in 1852 that made it possible to create a healthy new party. We hope that the colonel's assumption is not that such a tragedy is going to happen this year. For while a lot of us are willing to grant the difficulty—the almost hopeless difficulty—of reconciling the elements in the Republican Party, we still believe that a supreme national interest demands the defeat of the Democratic ticket in 1952. After that let us consider a clean break between the two factions in the party. Kyle Palmer concludes his article on the subject with this advice: "With an admiration for him that has never been touched with a certain degree of affectionate awe, with a newspaperman's instinct to recognize both the strength and weakness of greatness in a man and with a certain measure of sympathy for the impatience that has seized upon his judgment, I could wish that the colonel might drop his American Party plans during the next 60 days and help us clean up a mess which, four years hence, may be beyond hope of cleansing. Now—not four years hence—is the time for all good men to come to the aid of the party."

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.