MacArthur Looming
Larger at Convention
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CHICAGO, July 7—Hovering
over the scene of strife on the
convention floor today, over the
disorderly lobbies and streets
and over the innumerable conferences in more or less smoke-
filled rooms is the ominous shadow of a man of authentic greatness. It will not be surprising if
many a delegate weary of the
infinitely troublesome problems
of the rules, regulations and
laws by which men seek to govern themselves is longing to resolve it all by choosing a man
worthy of hero worship and to
let him care for this tortured political party. The man most in
their minds is Gen. Douglas
MacArthur. Human beings frustrated by the difficulties of self-
government have done that sort
of thing since the beginning of
time. A man is so simple. Men
seeking a way to live together
are so complicated.

Provocative Question
And one of the most complicated problems in all the range
of self-government is the one
with which the harassed delegates are struggling today—the
nature of a political party. Felix
Morley writing in Barrons puts
the problem before this convention in these very provocative
terms:
“The root issue is simply the
ill-defined character of a political party. Is it to be regarded as
essentially a private organization, like a club, controlled by
a few professional politicians,
whose efforts are generally compensated by the perquisites of
politics? Or is a political party
essentially a public organization, comparable to a common
carrier, which should serve all
who wish to use its facilities, regardless of their personal contribution to the long range success of the organization?”

Important Truth
Mr. Morley has somewhat
loosely stated his point but he
has caught hold of a very important truth. The real line of distinction between the so-called
private character of a political
party and its public responsibility has never been drawn. And
after all this shooting is over it
will still be a blurred distinction. Thus the apparently simple question of how the national convention shall be made up has
been debated ever since the first
one nearly a century and a quarter ago but on this occasion the
issues are as indefinite as ever.

It is out of the perplexities
of which this is a sample that
the immense importance of MacArthur has arisen. In fact it
was the yearning for a heroic
savior that originally gave rise
to the whole Eisenhower movement. He was regarded as something solitary, austere and majestic with of course a bit of
homely charm attached. With
such a candidate Republicans
might forget that they lived in
the East, or the Midwest, or the
Northwest and join in happy reunion.
But in the month during
which Ike has become flesh and
blood and has lived amongst us
he has been disappointing. He
has done his best but his best
is that of a normal harried man
trying to play a role for which
he has no training and I suspect for which he has little liking. Out of the disillusionment
over Eisenhower the MacArthur
legend has emerged with greater potentiality.
For MacArthur has managed
his case far, far better than has
Eisenhower. He still has no
aura of the mysterious and
lordly. His utterances have
been able to meet the yearning
of the people for idealism in the
great tradition. And his management of his appearance in
Chicago at this convention is
superb. He is coming only a
short hour or two before his
speech and he is leaving shortly
after. He only lightly touches
the ground here which is defiled
by this scuffle for power and
then he is gone. He is a factor
to be reckoned with, whatever
may be the outcome of this convention—a factor of truly
heroic proportions.

Taft-Hartley
Slate Urged by
John L. Lewis
CHICAGO, July 7 (P)—John
L. Lewis, bitter critic of the
Taft-Hartley Labor Law, today
suggested a Taft-Hartley ticket
for the Republican Party.
A statement distributed by a
spokesman for Lewis, president
of the United Mine Workers,
suggested that Sen. Taft, who
wants the GOP Presidential
nomination, should seek former
Rep. Fred Hartley of New Jersey as a running mate. They
were coauthors of the labor act.
“Mr. Lewis pointed out,” the
statement said, “that much of
Mr. Taft’s fame of late has been
due to his collaborative effort
with Mr. Hartley. He added that
Gilbert and Sullivan were extremely successful but that their
success diminished when the
team was split up.
“Lewis suggested a Taft-Hartley ticket for the Republican
Party would give the voters a
clear-cut opportunity to decide
35,233,523 issues.”
In recent elections Lewis’
support has veered between the
Republican and Democratic tickets. In 1948 he opposed election
of Truman but did not affirmatively support GOP Candidate
Thomas E. Dewey.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.