Korean Front Rumbles
Despite Campaign Slogan
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
SANTA BARBARA — Behind and below the fireworks and oratory of this political campaign will certainly be the flash and rumble of guns on the Korean front. For whatever those who are attempting to paint a happy land created by Democratic rule may say, they should be answered by the refrain of World War II: "Don't you know there's a war on?"
There may be some disposition by both candidates to put this issue in the background, for neither is wholly invulnerable on the question of responsibility. But to the hundreds of thousands who have felt the sharp pain of the casualty lists and to others with sufficient concern and imagination to realize that 300 to 500 casualties per day are the price we are paying as these seemingly endless negotiations go on, Korea is a bitterly important matter of interest.
Here on the West Coast this question is much more seriously regarded than elsewhere, for through these ports pass the grim reminders of the fact that when politicians prate of peace there is no peace. And here are many eyewitnesses of that war.
*
One of them is an officer who participated as a member of the Staff of Vice-Adm. C. Turner Joy in many months of negotiations at Panmunjom. I have asked him for the answers to some of the questions that are puzzling Americans as they read from day to day of the flickering ups and downs of those conferences. His answers clarify a number of points that have been obscured by technicalities and endless detail. I shall in this and another column or two give his answers in his own words.
What is the main point of difference on which these negotiations are now being stalled?
"The negotiations are now proceeding on Point 4 of the agreed-upon agenda, which relates to the exchange of prisoners held by both sides. But before we can make that issue clear and the situation in which we find ourselves understandable we should review what happened in the cases of the first three points."
What were the first three points and why were our efforts more successful with them?
"The first point was the settling of what the points of the agenda were to be. On this, Nam II, the chief Communist delegate, had little to offer. He proposed a few items, among which were the 38th parallel as the line to which each side would withdraw, and the withdrawal of all foreign troops from the Korean peninsula. He offered nothing concrete in the form of inspection to insure that neither side would build up its military forces during the anticipated armistice. After several weeks of discussions, a plan of negotiation was adopted which was acceptable to the United Nations command.
*
"The second point, which was the determination of the line of demarcation, required almost four months that included not only lengthy discussions but a long recess. Finally, the enemy agreed to the line of contact between the opposing forces, rather than the 38th parallel."
Why did the enemy delegation finally yield on this?
"Because during that period the United Nations forces were on the move and were driving well north of the 38th parallel. The enemy was being punished. We were, as they say in diplomacy, 'negotiating from strength.'
"The third point of the agenda related to concrete arrangements for the armistice. During the period that this point was discussed the battle line was stabilized and the pressure upon the enemy was relaxed substantially.
"The trouble in arguing the prisoner of war issue has been that for six months we have been negotiating from weakness."
What this means will be explained in another column.