YALE MISSES
THE POINT
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Something even more disturbing than the Dutch elm
disease came to the Yale campus last year. It was a book
by William F. Buckley Jr.,
entitled "God and Man at
Yale."
The very serious and well-
documented charges made by
this able young man apparently
threw the staid administrative
officers of this great institution into consternation. Replies to Buckley have been
numerous and varied and, it
must be said, some of the replies by the elders have been
far less rational and dignified
than was the attack.

★

When I was a student at
Columbia 30-some years ago,
it was the radical boys who
were kicked about by the
authorities. Now, apparently,
it is the conservative boy
who takes the heating.
As a part of the defensive
tactics of the Yale administration, President Griswold
appointed an advisory committee of well-known citizens
and graduates of the institution to consider the Buckley
charges and to report. The
committee's report has now
been published. Its import is
that all is well at Yale.
This report, however, sponsored as it is in part by successful lawyers and able businessmen, is singularly without
substance or even convincing logic.
It starts out to answer the
two major charges made by
Buckley: first, that in its educational offerings there prevails, especially in economics,
a process of indoctrination,
and, second, that its teaching
is irreligious. In what follows
I am not taking into consideration either the charges or the
committee's answer regarding
religion. I am concerned solely
with the question of economic indoctrination.

★

Buckley's charge is that in a
large and decisive part of
Yale's instruction in economics the teaching "assiduously"
disparages the individual and
glorifies the government—in
short, that students are taught
a species of statism or "Socialism." And he documents this
charge by ample evidence not
only from the character of the
professors' lectures but from
the books assigned as reading.
Instead of answering this
charge, the advisory committee denies that Yale is
teaching doctrines of a Communistic or subversive character. Then it goes into a
panegyric on academic freedom.
I would like to remind the
distinguished lawyers on the
committee that this suggests
a case in which a man is indicted for burglary and offers
as defense that he is not
guilty of murder.

★

There is a great difference
between teaching a form of
creeping Socialism and teaching Communism.
And the question of academic
freedom is wholly irrelevant
to the point. The real issue
is competent teaching. In
some of the most important
courses the teacher is not
only biased, which is his right,
but he assigns only reading
that supports his point of
view. That is not offering both
sides of a question. It is exactly what Buckley says it is—"indoctrination."
Yale should be free, as it
is, to hire Socialists to teach
economics. And Yale alumni
should be equally free to
withhold contributions for the
support of such teaching. And
so everybody is still free.
Only the students suffer, because they are getting incompetent instruction.

★

I would suggest to a member of this committee, Irving
S. Olds, Yale '07, who is, I
believe, chairman of the U.S.
Steel Corp., that he read with
care a book by the very popular Prof. Charles E. Lindblom on "Unions and Capitalism." He will find there
this conclusion: "Neither industrial democracy nor public policy aimed at a genuinely
competitive economy is an
escape from the difficulties
generated by the conflict between unionism and the competitive price system. The remaining alternative is government direction of the economy."
This ought to interest Mr.
Olds right now in the light
of his company's conflict with
the CIO.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.