Conservation Applies
to the Economy Also
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

TULSA, Okla.—The Isaak
Walton League, which has
just held its 30th annual convention here, is not, as its
name might imply, just an
association of fishermen. In
fact, many of the hundreds
of members whom I have seen
at the meetings do not appear to be much interested
in angling. The league and
its thousands of members and
officers are patriotically concerned with preserving not
only the resources which
make fishing possible but the
economic system which makes
it possible for some of us to
take a quiet hour of happy
recreation. It is, in short, concerned with conservation not
only of our forests, streams
and minerals but the money
of the taxpayer and the freedom of the individual and the
States from ever-growing Federalism.

Its slogan is "Defender of
Soil, Woods, Waters and Wildlife." It is nonpartisan and it
is supported by nothing but
the small dues of its thousands of members. The striking thing to me as I listened
to the speeches and resolutions at these meetings was
the league's unalterable opposition to two kinds of ruthless exploitation of our resources.

★

The first was the kind that
Theodore Roosevelt, Gifford
Pinchot and other early conservationists had in mind—
the exploitation of our natural resources by private interests. While that fight has
largely been won through the
passage of legislation and other means, the Izaak Walton
League still is on the alert
lest private companies and individuals invade the public domain in the interest of quick
and unjustified profit.

The league's major fight,
however, is against a type of
exploitation that T. R. never
appreciated in his zeal for
the expansion of government—the exploitation of our resources for the aggrandizement and glory of the bureaucracy itself and the Socialistic theories which it is
determined to put into effect.
The league has been fighting for years to get the public
and the Congress to realize
that in the reckless expansion of government projects
and enterprises such as gigantic dams and public power
enterprises we may be impairing our natural resources beyond hope of correction.

Already there are examples
of government projects that
have not cured but have aggravated such forces of
destruction as floods and
droughts. States and local communities, in many cases aided
and abetted by the Federal
government, have secured
the draining of lakes and rerouting of rivers only to find
in a few years that they needed the departed water to make
their land productive. The
league, as well as many other
organizations and individuals,
has been pointing out for a
long time the danger, as well
as the absurdity, of the perennial rivalry between the Army
Engineers and the Bureau of
Reclamation in seeking more
and more Federal money to
build greater and wilder projects.

★

The league, however, is against big power dams only
on a selective basis. It has
favored some which offered
sound prospects of self-liquidation and which promised
genuinely to preserve our resources. But others it has consistently and effectively opposed.

This year the league passed
a resolution opposing the construction of great multipurpose dams on the Missouri
main stream until the functioning of the Ft. Peck, Garrison and Ft. Randall dams
has been demonstrated and
until other measures of flood
control have been provided on
the tributaries and headwaters. It also enacted a strong
resolution against the enormous Central Arizona Project, passed last year by the
Senate and presently held up
in the House.

In these days, when sectional interests are reaching
out so eagerly for more and
more Federal money, the efforts of a national organization such as the Izaak Walton
League for economy are extremely important. All of us,
whether we fish or whether
we cut bait, should applaud
the league.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.