POWER FOR
TOO LONG
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Unless the Republican Party and that part of the Democratic Party that still adheres to Jeffersonian principles make three issues clear this year, we shall once more witness decisive millions staying away from the polls.
These three issues are: first, the frank advocacy by this administration of Socialistic policies and plans; second, the tragic course of foreign policy from Pearl Harbor to Panmunjom; third, the callous violation of moral standards in the Federal government.
We can put these in any order of importance that we choose. To me, they are equally dangerous. Any one of them, if pursued, will destroy our civilization.

★

To the third issue mentioned above, the St. Louis Globe-Democrat has made a very important contribution. For years this newspaper has stood foursquare for sound, conservative principles amid the flickering lights of false liberalism.
Aroused by the succession of unsavory disclosures of the last few years, the publisher of the Globe-Democrat, E. Lansing Ray, addressed a pertinent question on the subject of public morals to a long list of distinguished Americans. His question was:
"What can be done to bring the nation back from the low standard of morals to which it has fallen?" A staff writer, Carl E. Major, carried the many replies to this question in a series of articles published in the newspaper. After the series was completed, the Globe-Democrat published the entire series in a brochure which I believe can be had for the asking from the newspaper. It is worth getting, too, for it gives many views by honest and thoughtful Americans about what can be done about official corruption.

★

It would be unfair to this collection to attempt in general terms to sum up the answers contained in this symposium, but a few might well be singled out for mention, because they all offer good advice on a many-sided question.
B. M. Baruch says, quite correctly, that "the schools and colleges teach bad economics, bad morals and ethics, and, indeed, bad logic." He concludes his statement with the suggestion that we do the right and not the expedient thing on election day. Then, in characteristic fashion, caution overtakes the famous elder statesman. He does not make it clear what the "right" thing will be in 1952.

★

Herbert Hoover is more outspoken. His laconic reply is: "Change the administration."
It is interesting to note that those who most closely support the Truman administration write the longest letters. One or two suggest that the fault is with the public, not the officers of government. In short, that if the public were more watchful, there would be less crookedness. Put another way, it is like saying, "If a majority favors honesty, we will be honest." This is indeed strange doctrine.
Sen. Taft calls for a moral revival which will make itself felt at the polls.
Many of the answers stress the need for more religious teaching and a revival of faith in God. This is perfectly true for the long pull. It is the only ultimate answer.

★

But the immediate need, in my opinion, is to heed the political wisdom of those who created our Constitution and founded our republic. Their formula, written everywhere, was to limit the power of government. They knew the toxic effect of power, especially power enjoyed too long.
Before the American Revolution, Abigail Adams wrote in a letter to her husband: "I am more and more convinced that man is a dangerous creature; and that power is ever grasping and like the grave cries, 'Give, give.'" Years later, Lord Acton put it this way: "Power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely."
These little men have been in power too long.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.