AUSTIN, Tex.—The question of whether Eisenhower could carry Texas as a Republican is an important factor in the general’s campaign over the nation. It is hotly discussed in Texas and it will be important in the series of party conventions this month, After a week in Houston and Austin, during which I have discussed the question with many people, the answer seems to be “maybe,” with certain qualifications. It is fairly clear that no other Republican would have a chance. Beyond that, deponent sayeth not.

I may add that on my first day in Texas I was clearer about Texas prospects than I am on the seventh. For so confused is the picture that the more you learn, the more “ifs” and “ands” appear.

Bitter contests in both parties start today with the precinct conventions meeting to select delegates to the county conventions a few days later. These precinct affairs are the only occasions where the common citizen has a whack at the nominating process. After these are held, the citizen’s interest is entirely delegated. At the county conventions delegates are selected for the State conventions later in May. There the delegates to the national conventions will be selected.

In the Republican precinct conventions the fight will be between the Taft and the Eisenhower forces. The Taft side is headed by National Committeeman Henry Zwerfell. The guess of most observers is that more Eisenhower supporters will appear at these conventions than Taft people but that because of superior organization and experience the Taft side will finally control the delegation to Chicago.

In the Democratic conventions the contest is between the so-called Truman loyalists and the forces now lead by Gov. Shivers. The latter will probably wrest complete control of the Democratic Party in Texas from the former. In these Democratic conventions the specific issue will be whether delegates will be pledged all along the line to the decision of the national convention. The Shivers forces want complete freedom to act as the occasions dictate. It seems probable that the Shivers organization will prevail and that there will be no pledges.

What may happen if the Chicago convention selects a candidate and writes a platform which the Shivers group cannot accept is a real revolt. This may take the form of swinging the votes of the State to Russell if he decides to run as a third candidate or, if he does not, going on record for Eisenhower by action of either the Democratic State Executive Committee or the State convention in September.

Thus, with all these “ifs” and “ands,” it is hard to predict the result in Texas.