Churchill's Poor Excuse
for a Serious Blunder
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A politician, when confronted with an execrable blunder of his own making, has three courses open. He can keep silent and hope that the public's memory will be short and its indulgence ample. Or he can acknowledge his blunder and promise to amend by better judgment next time. Or he can offer excuses. But they had better be good excuses.
Unfortunately, Sir Winston Churchill in his memoirs, now running serially in our press, tries the third course in connection with his part in the lamentable Morgenthau plan at the Quebec conference in 1944.
The Morgenthau plan was largely created under the direction of the late Harry Dexter White, who was Assistant Secretary of the Treasury under Secretary Morgenthau. It completely fulfilled the savage desire of the latter to destroy the industrial potential of Germany for all time. White, it will be remembered, committed suicide under the shadow of a flood of testimony that he had been a key factor in the espionage activity of the government during the Hiss days. It can be assumed that he was valiantly serving the interests and purposes of the Soviet.
*
When this scheme was first presented in the inner circle of the Roosevelt administration Secretary Stimson, according to his account, violently opposed it. He even said that he was astounded to find that at the outset even Secretary Hull shared Roosevelt's and Morgenthau's desire to turn Germany into a pastoral country. Later, Hull seems to have seen the light and in his memoirs he characterizes the Morgenthau plan as "catastrophic." And when Roosevelt returned from Quebec with his own initials and those of Churchill on the document, Hull joined with Stimson in dissuading Roosevelt from doing anything more about it.
The damage had been done, however. The news of the plan spread over the world, and it afforded Goebbels exactly what was needed to turn the German nation into cohesive, fanatical determination to fight to the death. No one can estimate the American lives and American millions this crazy document cost. It changed the course of history, to our disadvantage.
*
In the current Churchill memoirs, the Prime Minister says he was surprised to find that Roosevelt had brought Morgenthau to Quebec. He then notes that Roosevelt and Morgenthau were so insistent that he yielded. He says in his explanation that "we had much to ask" from Roosevelt and Morgenthau. If this means anything, it means that because of the dire need of financial assistance the Prime Minister was willing to endorse something he did not believe in. Of course, he admits further that the removal of Germany's industry might help Britain's economy. But the plan "carried these ideas to an ultralogical conclusion." This, I submit, is an understatement of such majestic proportions that it deserves an extra citation in the author's Nobel Prize for Literature.
But did Churchill approve of the plan? He only admits that the initials F. D. R. and W. C. on the document meant only a willingness "to consider it." Perhaps that is what the Churchill initials mean, but in my own association of four years with Roosevelt I learned that when F. D. R. was attached it was the equivalent of a signature. I have in my possession plenty of proof of that.
The performance itself was unworthy of Churchill the statesman. The excuse is unworthy of Churchill the historian.
Perhaps Sir Winston will do better when he comes in his story to the Potsdam conference. For at that time the Morgenthau plan was, in some measure, formally adopted and its effect has cost us more millions. But at Potsdam Churchill was accompanied by Attlee, his successor. Perhaps he will make Attlee responsible.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.