DIVIDING
THE LOOT
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
President Eisenhower's
White House conference on
reallocating Federal and State
tax sources and activities
may well prove to be the beginning of his greatest single
domestic reform. Quite properly, ne has attempted this
task by joint action of Governors of States, House and
Senate leaders and high officers of the Federal executive
department.
The evil that this move is designed to correct is the slow
but steady invasion of the States by the Federal government. This invasion is accomplished, first, by seizing
sources of taxation traditionally held by the States and
local communities and, then, by handing back part of the
money thus siphoned off in the form of grants-in-aid. The
result is substantially to put the States on a Federal dole.
★
The Federal government robs Peter and, after using
some of the loot, quiets Peter's outcries by returning a
few dollars in the form of a gift. The result is the steady
loss of the sovereignty of the States and the growth of
the Federal Leviathan.
Some of the sources thus invaded by Washington were
abandoned by the States. The States have tried to hold onto
others which has meant confusion and overlapping. But
in these overlapping cases, the "bite" of the Federal government has grown bigger and bigger. In 1934 the Federal
share of these sources was 63%. In 1946, according to
the Hoover Commission, it was 91%. It is probably considerably larger now.
The Hoover Commission task force considered the
problem at length and made a number of sound recommendations. It suggested that these sources should be given
to the States:
1-Sources widely and evenly distributed over the
whole country.
2-Forms of business, wealth and income of a non-
mobile nature.
3-Sources in which receipts are obtained in connection with the regulation and enforcement of State laws
(or local ordinances).
4-Sources related to special benefits, privileges or protection received from the
States or their subdivisions.
★
The task force suggested that the following sources be
given to the Federal government.
1-Those which permit a high progression in taxation.
2-Sources highly concentrated in a few States.
3-Forms of business wealth and income of a highly
mobile nature.
While no specific prescription can be laid down here for
such a reallocation, a number of examples may be suggested. The Federal government should retain all customs duties, alcohol and tobacco excises, manufacturers' sales
taxes, a flat rate on individual incomes much less than
is now levied, the corporation income tax, payroll taxes
for old-age and survivors' benefits, and a few specific
levies such as railroad payroll taxes for unemployment and
retirement.
The States should exclusively have death and gift
taxes, gasoline and lubricating oil taxes, retail sales taxes, limited individual income
taxes, business and severance taxes and payroll taxes for
unemployment benefits.
Local units should exclusively have property taxes,
various admission and amusement taxes, retail sales taxes
where States do not use them, and various licenses and fees.
This would be an excellent way to get the States out of
bondage.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.