PORTLAND, Or. — The
hearings now going on before
the Federal Power Commission on the application of the
Idaho Power Co. to build
three power dams on the
Snake River in and near the
famous Hell’s Canyon should
accomplish a very important
result. It should remove this
issue, so important to the
Northwest and to the taxpayers of the nation, from the
realm of wild, irresponsible
political wrangling in which
it has been immersed for
more than two years.
*
It may not terminate the
oratory on the subject. Nothing is likely to do that. But
it can give to reasonable and
interested people some answers that they deserve to
get.
These answers are not easy
to explain. They involve complicated and often not too
definite calculations on which
there is difference of opinion
among honest and reliable
engineers. They involve matters of policy which concern
not one or a few years but a
span of half a century. They
concern the money market
and the capacity of the Idaho
Power Co. to sustain the financial burden involved.
They involve the relative
rights and necessities of at
least two States and of many
interests in those States. They
involve the relationship of
these structures on the Snake
River to completed or projected structures on the Co-
lumbia River of which the
Snake is a tributary.
One of the most talked
about but fundamentally
least important issues is
whether the resources of this
river for generating electricity should be developed by the
Federal government or a
private company. Some zealots would try to make out
that there is something inherently benign and bountiful in a government project
and something inconsistent
with the public interest in a
power company which is run
for profit. This is curious because some Senators see no
evil or potential evil in a
manufacturing company that
comes to the Northwest seeking cheap and plenteous power.
The waters of the Snake
River, if they can be beneficially used, belong to the
people of the region and the
problem is to develop those
waters by a means, public or
private, which will provide
the maximum usefulness and
the least cost.
★
There is little question
about the relative cost of the
proposals of the Federal government and the Idaho company. As I noted in a previous article, the cost of the
Federal dam to the taxpayers would be at least $500,-
000,000. The private dams
would cost the taxpayers
nothing, but the installations
of the private company would
pay to the States and the
Federal government $10,000,-
000 a year. The relative estimates of the contesting projects as estimated by the parties themselves would be
about 12% more for the Federal dam. But it should be
noted that the estimates of
both are disputed.
So far as the time that must
elapse before the projects are
completed, the advantage is
distinctly with the private
company. The first unit of the
private company would be
operating seven or eight
years before the Federal dam
would be finished. This is an
element of great importance
since there is a power shortage in the Northwest.
★
It also appears that there
are several other sites where
the Federal government could
build if the specific Hell’s
Canyon site is denied.
It must be remembered
that the river at the sites of
both projected installations
is interstate. Oregon has a
vital legal interest and it may
be that a condition to the final
settlement will be to turn
over a generous amount of
the power produced by the
company dams to the Bonneville power pool for use in
Oregon and Washington. Indeed it already is indicated
that Secretary McKay will insist upon that.
All these and many other
issues are now being reviewed by the Federal Power Commission, which finally
has removed this great public problem from the arena of
politics and propaganda.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.