CALIFORNIA
OUTLOOK
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

SANTA BARBARA - California's great growth in population and wealth is a twice-told tale. Its growing importance in the national political arena also is becoming known. But it must be added that there is growing maturity and conservatism which will be news to those who remember the vagaries of the past. The "production for use and eggs movements are only lurid memories. The Townsend movement, I understand, is now located in Cleveland, O. Despite an overwhelming Democratic registration the State has been going Republican since 1948. While Gov. Earl Warren's Republicanism is the subject of much Republican criticism he has won repeated victories. In 1950, Richard Nixon won the Senatorship by a large majority and William Knowland won renomination and election in 1952 by the most tremendous majority ever cast for a candidate in the State. Eisenhower carried the State by a substantial 800,000.

The representation of the State in the House of Representatives-now tied at 30 for second place with Pennsylvania-is mostly Republican. The figures are 18 Republicans and 11 Democrats with one Republican vacancy. In the light of the rapid growth of the State it is interesting to note the relative youth of these California members of the House. Half of them are under 45. Most of the younger ones are, like Vice-President Nixon, veterans of World War II. Eleven are serving their first term.

★

The importance of the State in Washington is underlined by Nixon's Vice-Presidency and Knowland's position as majority leader in the Senate. Despite this pleasant picture, Republicanism in the State faces a very serious crisis. The Governorship, the Senatorial seat held by Thomas H. Kuchel, Warren's appointee to the Nixon seat, and all the Congressional seats must be contested next year. Kuchel is not well known and against a strong Democrat would have a hard fight to win. Several of the Republican House members were elected by slim margins and, without Eisenhower on the ticket, will have hard going.

The key to the situation is the future of Gov. Earl Warren. It is not known at the moment whether he will seek a fourth term. But whether he does or not it is the intention of Lieut. Gov. Goodwin Knight to seek the Governorship in the primary. Knight's record as a vote-getter is amazing.

★

He is a tireless campaigner and is in deadly earnest in his ambition to be Governor. He also will have the support of powerful Republicans who are convinced that Warren is too far to the left. How a contest in the primaries between the two would result is not the question that concerns people interested in the success of the Republican Party in November. The point is that a Warren-Knight fight would endanger the Kuchel cause and those of all the Republican House members who hold office by slim majorities. Hence, there is ardent hoping that some way will be found to get Warren out of the race for Governor. The most convenient means would be to have the President give him a Federal position suitable to his eminence and his undoubted popularity. Most frequently mentioned is a seat on the United States Supreme Court. But there is no vacancy and all members seem to be in excellent health. One Republican, who above all cherishes peace in the party, after glancing over the list of the black-robed members of the court, remarked, "I wish that someone would resign or something."

Copyright, 1953, by the Associated Press
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.