DEATH OF
A PARTY
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

During the recent campaign in New York City I
had the opportunity to witness at firsthand the death
of a political party.
I am not referring to the
Republican Party in the city
which, except for a chronic
case of malnutrition, is still
possessed of a firm constitution. I refer to the American
Labor Party in which the
Reds have become so troublesome that even Vito Marcan-
tonio, the high priest and
once the patronage saint of
the outfit, has given it up.
My own knowledge is based
upon active participation in
political affairs in my home
district, which was the fatherland of the ALP and the constituency which Marcantonio
represented for seven terms.
In 1950 we all joined and defeated him with a Democrat,
James G. Donovan.

★

The year before Marcantonio's defeat for Congress,
he was a candidate for Mayor
and received 356,422 votes
over the city. In 1950, his
candidate for Mayor received
119,182 votes. In the recent
election his candidate fell to
51,372.
In the 22nd Councilmanic
District, which was the center
of the old American Labor
Party strength, the drop
has been even more drastic.
In 1949 its candidate for the
City Council received 27,853
votes. This time, the score
was 1943.
An examination of what
happened makes it clear that
the Communist group decided
to move into the Democratic
Party. The Daily Worker
told its readers to vote for
Wagner, the Democratic candidate for Mayor. They apparently feel that their evil purposes can best be accomplished in the Democratic
Party rather than by standing
out in a smaller splinter
party where they can be
more easily identified.

★

On the day after the election Marcantonio gave up the
ghost. He resigned from the
State chairmanship of the
ALP. His statement accompanying the resignation was
very significant. He explained that a "minority" in
the party had insisted that its
objective was to defeat the
Republican candidate for
Mayor. This explains the
Daily Worker endorsement
of Wagner.
"For too long now," continued Marcantonio's statement, "the American Labor
Party has been a 'house divided against itself, between
us who believed in the American Labor Party as an effective political party nominating and electing candidates and those who I
charged last April were attempting to force upon us the
role of a pressure group."

★

One very important general conclusion can be adduced from this statement
and the events which
brought it about. The Communists in this country, at
least as represented in this
virile center of their operations, are not a legitimate
political party, do not intend
to operate as one should, and
are not interested in a fair
elective contest for public offices.
Marcantonio's designation
of them as a "pressure
group" is an absurd understatement. What they are is
a conspiracy to destroy free
elections and all the rest of
the institutions of our government.

★

Why should they be given
any of the privileges and immunities of a legitimate political party? Some of them
have always hidden behind
the contention that to belong
to the Communist Party is
admissible because it is a lawful party. Why should we
provide this screen?
To be sure, it has been contended by many well-meaning people, including Gov.
Dewey, that to outlaw the
party will drive its members
underground. But it is underground already for all its
sinister purpose. The only
reason it maintains its public
identity is to avail itself of
privileges which it uses only
to recruit new members and
to mess up the activities of
other parties. It should be
outlawed by State law wherever it now exists.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.