What Is This Battle
Over Books Anyway?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It seems to me that President Eisenhower, Secretary
Dulles, Congressional committees, the professors, the
bibliopoles, the bibliophiles, the librarians, the book publishers and others are getting
completely off the track in this rumpus over the books
in overseas libraries.
They don't realize that a political government cannot
do what a privately endowed institution can do. If I go to
the library of Harvard University and can't find what I
want I go elsewhere and look. If I think there are
books in a private library that should not be there and
tell the librarian so he rightly tells me that it is none of
my business.
If I go to an overseas library I rightly feel that I am
a proprietor and have a right to say about what is and
what is not there. And so do scores of millions of other
Americans. Government, say our political orators, is everybody's business. And, curiously
enough, they are right. What is everybody's business
must be run on quite different principles than a private
institution. There are lots of things it cannot do.
And there are lots of privileges, rights and immunities
that private people have that government cannot have. In
fact, government under our system doesn't have "rights"
at all. It has "powers"—limited ones at that. That's how
we keep our liberty.
The President is only a novice in politics. He is still
talking like a college president, not perhaps because he
was momentarily president of Columbia but because he
listens so much to brother Milton. People enjoy no
"right" to have any book of their choice provided by the
government.
Bill Benton, onetime Senator from Connecticut and father of the overseas libraries,
takes the absurd position that when the government puts
books in those libraries it can avoid endorsing them.
The books are not, he says, in any way expressing government policy nor do they
presumably portray American life. They are just books
put there for a purpose which this controversy is rapidly
making very vague.
For if the books are not statements of government
policy or what Acheson or Benton or Dulles or Eisenhower or whosis thinks are
portrayals of American life; what are we buying them for
and what are they there for?
The recent "manifesto" of the American Library Association bears the title "On
Freedom to Read." Well, who is being kept from reading?
Certain elements are denied the right to read by religious
bodies, and that is a right possessed by such bodies.
Parents and guardians properly try to keep dirty books
from children or the immature. But I have not heard of
any other denials of the right to read. We are not setting
up universities or bureaus of research abroad. The stocking of books abroad is for
propaganda, a matter in which the judgment of government is paramount.
The manifesto approved by the American Library Association in Los Angeles on
June 25 was, according to the papers, cooked up at a
"closed" meeting at Rye, N.Y., on May 2 and 3. The drafting committee was headed by
Dr. Luther Evans, a New Dealer who started under the
late Harry Hopkins and rose to be Librarian of Congress.
A clear example of self-interest is the presence among
the endorsers of the "manifesto" of several book publishers, "most of whom were
participants in the Rye conference." Can it be that they
have a selfish interest?
One of the endorsers said the other day that "the book
business was going to pot" because the government wasn't
buying so many books. Thus, a government subsidy can
have its effect even upon those embattled fighters for
the "right to read."
If the book publishers and librarians want to keep politics out of the book business,
they had best keep the book business out of politics.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.