Communist Educators:
a Matter for Congress
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
There are already signs of
fear in educational circles
that the new Congress may
lay heavy hands upon schools
and colleges. Solid grounds
for that fear can be found in
the report just issued by the
Senate Subcommittee on In-
ternal Security. This report
on "subversive influences in
the educational process" rec-
ommends that the committee
continue its inquiry during
the 83rd Congress.
It will be fortunate for all
concerned if our leaders in
education as well as our Senators and Congressmen refrain from hasty prejudgments and emotional demonstrations. For on the one hand Congress has certain legitimate reasons for investigation, and on the other hand the schools have a right to have that investigation strictly limited.
★
Congress is clearly within its rights when it seeks to determine whether there are Communist teachers in schools or colleges. The basis for this right is that even in privately supported schools Communists who are ipso facto members of an international conspiracy come within the purview of the Federal government. To deny this is to deny the capacity of the Federal government to protect the internal security of the nation.
Congress, on the other hand, is clearly beyond its jurisdiction if its inquiries go into the efficiency of instruction or the many degrees of pinkness short of Communism which shade some of the teaching in our schools and colleges. This is a matter for the consideration of school and college management, for school boards, trustees and other governing authorities.
★
The committee reports its opinion that, despite vigorous efforts toward a purge in several States, "there are yet many hundreds of teachers who are Communists." It concludes that "a Communist is not a fit person to be placed or retained in a position to influence the minds of the youth of America."
A few years ago, some educators, notably in higher education, claimed that Communist Party membership should not disqualify a person as a teacher. Those were the days, however, when Communism was not yet recognized as an international conspiracy aimed at our institutions and mode of life. There are probably very few educators now who hold such a view.
Nor is it a defense to claim that to disqualify Communist teachers is to limit their academic freedom. For academic freedom requires a state of mind truly free to examine facts, and a Communist has no such freedom of mind. He has surrendered his freedom by the very act of embracing Communism, which brooks no rival loyalty.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.