ALLOTING
TAXES
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Both the new Hoover Commission and the Manion Commission on Federal-State relations will ultimately come to the real problem involved in cutting back the great Federal bureaucracy.
The Federal establishment could not have grown so great under two power-hungry administrations without plenty of money exacted from taxes. And while the illimitable power of the Federal government to levy income taxes supplied most of the money, there has been a continuous raid by Congress upon the legitimate tax sources of the States.
The process was more than merely robbing Peter to pay Paul, because some of the loot was given back to Peter.
The Federal government choked off the capacity of the States to perform one after another of their traditional functions by levying competing taxes. Then the States were given back some of the money collected, in the form of grants-in-aid. This form of Federal handout has grown enormously in the last 30 years. And with its growth, the independence of the States has grown weaker and smaller.
Both of the commissions mentioned above have members who are quite aware of this and who are prepared to press for a real reform in the tax structures of both the Federal government and State governments.
Rep. Noah Mason has been a pioneer in the fight to rationalize the tax structure and since he is a member of the Manion Commission as well as of the Ways and Means Committee of the House, his views on this subject will have great weight.
In a recent statement he outlined his plan to reapportion tax sources.

*

He would start with the individual and corporate income tax. In that field he would recognize the pre-eminent claim of the Federal government. At the present time, 31 States levy income taxes. An aggregate of about $1,000,000,000 is collected by them. But three-quarters of the revenues of the Federal government come from income taxes. Mason would induce the States to repeal their income taxes and be reimbursed by having Congress take the Federal government out of a number of other tax fields. The Federal government could and should let the States have a monopoly of estate and gift taxes. That would involve between $700,000,000 and $800,000,000.
The States raised revenue by gasoline taxes long before the Federal government entered that field. At the present time the Federal government collects about $500,000,000 in gasoline taxes. It should relinquish that money and permit the States to build and control their own highways.

*

The States and some of their subdivisions have fairly well monopolized the sales tax. Mason suggests that this monopoly in the retail field be confirmed by the Federal government and that if Congress decides to levy any sales tax it be a manufacturers' sales tax.
The Federal government should for many reasons repeal all of its admission taxes, which amount to something over $400,000,000. The States might then take over these levies and perhaps use the proceeds for the support of schools. This should end the agitation for Federal aid to schools.
Since liquor and tobacco levies have been a Federal concern since the days of Washington, the States should withdraw all levies in that field except the license fees. The latter would be essential to cover the cost of regulation.
The adoption of all these suggestions would not impoverish the Federal government. But it would establish some order in what is now a state of utter confusion.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.