It is probable that historians and lovers of literary curiosities will ponder for a generation over the remarkable number of matters, great and small, that the late Harold Ickes confided to his "Secret Diary," the first massive volume of which has just been published. A remarkable feature of this section of the diary, which covers the first thousand days of the Roosevelt administration, is the meager attention that it gives to what was supposed to be the major Ickes job, Secretary of the Interior. There is room for sniping at practically every member of the Cabinet and most of the other people close to the President. Nothing is too small to notice, even the vagaries of Ickes' well-stuffed Eustachian tubes. But the major subject is his Public Works Administration and his long and losing battle with Harry Hopkins. Believe it or not, Roosevelt when he took the oath of office was a believer in economical government. He steadfastly refused to approve throughout his 1932 campaign the suggestions by Alfred E. Smith, W. R. Hearst and many others that there be a $5,000,000,000 public works program. He said many times in my hearing that such a suggestion was silly because there were not enough worthy projects to spend any such amount upon. So far as I could make out, he had never heard of John Maynard Keynes or of "compensatory spending." After the inauguration it took many hassles, in which Tugwell, Sen. La Follette and many others participated, to get an appropriation of $3,300,000,000. This figure was pulled out of the air and, so far as I knew at the time, it represented a compromise between the Smith-Hearst $5,000,000,000 and Roosevelt's conviction that there were no more than $1,000,000,00 in worthy and feasible projects. Then, to see that the spending should go slowly, the President gave the direction of this money to the suspicious and then genuinely thrifty care of Ickes. It was doled out at a snail's pace. Meanwhile, Harry Hopkins had appeared on the scene, with responsibility for a measurably small relief program (FERA). For a while Ickes and Hopkins seemed, according to the diary, to get on perfectly. Ickes was busy doling out money, not necessarily to create employment, but through financing municipal plants, to make war on his old enemies, the power companies. But when 1934 moved toward its end, a cloud arose in the Ickes sky. Hopkins, who loved to spend money for spending's sake, had begun to show how votes might be made to grow with the sowing of dollars. The smashing Congressional victory of that fall awakened the political instincts of the President to the ease with which Hopkins' reckless spending of lots of ready money could activate machines in the great northern cities. At this epochal moment there came to the President's eager and experimental attention the economic doctrine of Keynesian spending. There were plenty of Keynesian addicts around—Marriner Eccles, Tugwell and others. "Wonderful," F. D. R. must have thought, "I can wield an instrument of political spoils without equal in history and at the same time have an excuse for it all nicely packaged in respectable economic theory." We were on the way to the reign of Hopkins and "tax, spend and elect," and Ickes was on the way to the doghouse. Ickes never realized what had happened. He denounced Hopkins in the diary. He complained to his friends. He argued hours on end with the President. But all in vain. The President never informed Ickes of what really was his motive. Over and over he would lay upon the tortured Ickes the unction of flattery. But his heart belonged to Hopkins the spender. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.