A Lesson for Sen. Taft,
and the President, Too
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Despite the desperate efforts of those who have hoped and prayed for a Taft-Eisenhower break, the President and the Senator have come around to the same conclusion.
When Taft made his Cincinnati speech, it was said: "This is it." And when the President "answered" that we could not "go it alone," they cried: "This is certainly it."
But let us retrace the steps in that affair.
At the press conference in which the President offered that written reply, Richard Wilson, a careful, conscientious reporter, pressed the vital point of what Taft actually said. The President made the rather astonishing reply that he hadn't read Taft's speech "in that detail." (Quotes are from published transcription.) Then a woman reporter from Texas braved the President by asking whether he would read the speech and give out a statement later. The President "couldn't do that...If he had to read all the speeches that appeared in the papers in detail he would be pretty badly off."
*
It could be said in justice that the President or a secretary certainly should read a speech which the President intends to answer in writing.
But a measure of blame attaches to Taft. For while he did not say what the President said he said, his statement was awkwardly phrased and clearly invited misinterpretation. The vital points were that we "might as well forget the United Nations as far as the Korean war is concerned" and if a truce failed to emerge we would notify our allies that we would "withdraw from all further peace negotiations." Later, he said, "We might as well abandon any idea of working with the United Nations in the East and reserve to ourselves a completely free hand."
He then referred to his book on foreign policy, but unfortunately did not quote it. Had he done so, his meaning would have been clear. He said in the book: "As far as military policy is concerned I see no choice except to develop our own military policy and our own policy of alliances, without substantial regard to the nonexistent power of the United Nations to prevent aggression. The very adoption of the Atlantic pact seems to me to constitute recognition of the impotence of the United Nations."
★
Seven days later, after the tumult and shouting, Taft clarified his meaning by saying that he favored the development in Asia of a military association like NATO.
Then, three days later, came Eisenhower's letter to President Rhee, in which he proposed an alliance like that which we now have with the Philippines, Australia and New Zealand. This would be a step toward "a comprehensive system of mutual security."
Thus, Taft is for a "military association," and Eisenhower for a "system of mutual security." In short, they both propose the same thing and both would, so far as military affairs are concerned, "forget" the United Nations.
The real significance of this apparent difference, now resolved, is that both men ought to be more careful.
Here are two very great men upon whom the hopes of millions rest. They should add a bit of caution to their greatness.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.