PORTLAND, Or.—The result of the recent Senate battle over the atomic energy bill represents the first great victory of President Eisenhower’s policy of partnership in the generation and distribution of electric power.
All signs indicate that it will not be the last. For the President’s idea is something that finds a warm reception in the public mind. And the proof of this lies open to the inquiring visitor to the Northwest.
This section, torn for years by controversy over the choice between public and private power, has discovered that such a choice need not be made. There is a sound workable middle ground which the President calls “partnership” and which informed people here call “local participation.”
The practical application of partnership was a reality here long before Eisenhower entered politics, and there are good reasons to believe that he got the idea from here through former Governor and now Interior Secretary McKay. It is significant also that Eisenhower as a candidate in 1952 made his most important announcement of policy in Seattle.
Various explanations are given here of how “partnership” originated, but it seems to me a logical outcome of the Northwest power pool. That co-operative plan of stabilizing and equalizing the flow of electric power from the generator to the customer began in 1915 but reached its present form early in World War II.
At the present time it includes, in what is sometimes, and not quite accurately, called a “grid,” private electric utility companies, public ownership plants of both municipal and utility districts, Federally operated hydro plants and the Bonneville Power Administration.
It extends into several States to the east to Ft. Peck in Montana, and the Utah Power and Light Co. Power comes from both steam and hydro plants. The pool rests almost wholly upon co-operative efforts and works through an operating committee which maintains constant contacts among the participating agencies.
When there is a shortage at one spot, it is supplied from others through transmission lines which interconnect the participating agencies.
This pool should be sharply distinguished from the Bonneville Power Administration of the Interior Department, which produces no power but distributes and makes contracts for power generated in Federal plants. The BVA, however, is a participating member of the pool.
From this co-operative or partnership plan of distribution there has now grown the idea of group building of new hydro facilities. This involves financial contributions from more than one agency, public or private, toward the building of the project, and the taking of power therefrom under contract.
The two facilities which are most prominent are the Priest Rapids Dam, reservoir, and power plant already authorized by Congress, and the John Day Project now under study. Both are on the Columbia River. The former will include among the partners a number of Washington public utility districts.
The latter will include the two big private companies of Oregon, a Washington private company, and perhaps some public bodies.
Significantly, such inveterate public power advocates as Sen. Magnuson are now talking partnership.
The people of these States have come to realize that what is needed for the growth of the region is money. And money from private investors has the same capacity for development as Federal contributions and may well be easier to get.