One of the most grotesquely overgrown administrative outfits ever seen on the American continent was the State Department headed by Dean Acheson. Trimming the fat off this monster has been a slow, persistent process by Donald B. Lourie, Undersecretary for Administration, but after 16 months he is able to report substantial progress. Plenty more cutting is needed, but there is reason to assume that past progress will continue. Back in those days, called by some primitive and benighted, when T.R. was President and the distinguished Elihu Root was Secretary of State, that department got along with a very few hundred employees. Charles Evans Hughes in 1922 made a brilliant record with 631. Roosevelt and the New Deal raised the number to only 963 in 1938. But with the war the staff began to grow. It was 2755 in 1943, and 7623 in 1946. Administrative chaos overwhelmed the department after the war because there was summarily dumped therein a mass of personnel from some of the jerry-built war agencies for getting and giving information, for meddling in international economic affairs, and for setting up new international bodies. Much of this personnel was unscreened, untrained and nondescript. It had seemed in the war that every economist who could not find employment elsewhere, every broken-down newspaperman, every burning youth who wanted to reform the world and also escape military service had gotten a job in one of the emergency agencies. There were in this piebald host, moreover, some who had more sinister purposes. They were subversives responsive to alien ideologies and direction. The total on the State Department payroll mounted to more than 40,000 and remained at substantially that level throughout the Truman-Acheson era. Dulles inherited 42,734. For months the paring down went slowly. On last June 30, however, the number was reduced to 38,990. Then in August an executive order lifted out of the department no less than 16,750. These were people connected mainly with two functions that should never have been in the department, the Point 4 program and the so-called Information Service, including the Voice of America. The department proper was, after this executive order, left with 23,414. This group, of course, was by no means a "career service." There have never been more than a few hundred genuine career officers. Merely to cover with Civil Service requirements is not to create career personnel. It may, as has been the case with every administration since the Civil Service Act was passed in 1883, merely be the process of freezing political hacks into their jobs. Lourie and others went resolutely to work after the August transfers and by the end of October had cut the department to 20,509. After that cut progress was slow. According to the monthly reports on government by the indefatigable Sen. Byrd, there were on the State Department payroll at the end of March this year 20,145. There were serious questions asked in the hearings of the House Appropriations Subcommittee about some of these. It appears that we not only have a considerable staff of people under the State Department working at the United Nations in New York, but 148 work on United Nations affairs in Washington. There are other duplications involving intelligence officers who seem to be doing the same work as that of the Central Intelligence Agency, and also a plentiful supply of publicity people. But over all the department has made progress toward a normal staff for a country of this size and importance. All of the facts have not yet been developed by the Appropriations Committees with respect to the people transferred in August, but a few figures from the Byrd researches can suffice. The August transfer moved about 4000 people from the Technical Co-operation Administration (Point 4) in the State Department into the Mutual Security Administration, which was renamed Foreign Operations Administration. It moved approximately 11,400 "information" people into a new agency called the U.S. Information Administration. Byrd reported 7957 in the FOA after the transfer mentioned above, and a decline at the end of March this year to 5151. The 11,100 "information" personnel had declined to 9281 at the end of March this year. These are encouraging changes for which the administration and Congress may well claim credit in the coming campaign.