HARDEST-WORKING MAN
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Let us stop for a moment
and consider the performance of the hardest-working
man in Washington. Senate
Majority Leader William F.
Knowland.
The Presidency, of course,
involves more momentous decisions and some Presidents
have worked themselves to
death. But currently the occupant of the White House
need not undertake a fraction
of the unremitting toil that
falls upon the majority leader. Nor is Knowland deserving merely of the credit mingled with sympathy which
goes to a man who bears
heavy burdens. He not only
does the job but does it well.
To assume the task of a
parliamentary leader is a
matter involving real courage. To assume it when the
margin of majority is such
that one death may shift the
balance is courage of a high
order. But to assume the job
when it has been vacated by
a Robert Taft would seem to
most mortals to be foolhardy.
★
All these extraordinary conditions have surrounded William Knowland since the fatal
day when Taft surrendered
the reins. At that moment the
Republican margin in the
Senate was not only small
but poised delicately on two
or three quite unreliable Republicans. There were also
some Republican Senators
who hated McCarthy enough
to endanger the unity of the
party. There was also McCarthy himself, who hated
Communists so much that he,
too, was willing to make
trouble for his party.
There were in the quarrelsome brood which Knowland
was required to lead do-
gooders and rugged individualists, internationalists and
nationalists. There were those
who would follow our allies
into neutralism and those
willing to cast the bloody die
in Asia.
A reading of the interminable pages of the Congressional Record reveals how
faithfully, forcefully and at
the same time how tactfully
Knowland managed to push
through a creditable program
and leads one to feel nothing but admiration. The management of the atomic energy
filibuster was a triumph.
Morse alone would have been
a heavy cross to bear. But a
good third of the Democratic
minority was willing to go
any lengths to wreck the Republican program.
It may not be realized by
many who are not directly interested, but Knowland has
heavy committee work like
any other Senator. He is
chairman of the subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations which deals with
the enormous budget of the
Army Corps of Engineers.
This involves an appropriation of $470,000,000. Hundreds
of big and little projects must
be examined, and every care
must be taken to prevent
waste and extravagance.
★
A reading of the 1672 pages
of the hearings, which is a
part of my duty as a journalist, reveals how carefully
Knowland attended to his job.
He was also compelled to defend the bill on the floor and
accompany it to conference.
This in itself would be a full-
time job for some Senators.
But Knowland must also follow the exacting business of
the Foreign Relations Committee.
He must also be the constant contact with the White
House and interpret the President to the Senate and, what
is much more important, interpret the Senate to the
President. Unlike Alben
Barkley, who when majority
leader said that he carried the
flag of the President in the
Senate, Knowland conceives
himself to be an agent not of
the President but of the Senate.
Finally, there are patronage
and politics in California.
There are factions in the California Republican Party
which are not always in perfect harmony with each other. Gov. Knight has his ideas
of how the party should be
managed. There is a group
devoted to the President,
some members of which occasionally overlook the fact
that Knowland and Nixon are
fast friends. And there is the
inevitable rivalry between the
north and south of the State.
This must be compromised.
★
No person in the position
of Sen. Knowland can expect
to be spared criticism. There
are politicians in England
and France who see in him a
bar to the appeasement of
Red China. There are captious men of the press in
Washington whose life's mission is to assail those vested
with power. There are the extremists in his own party.
And there are those peevish
constituents who expect
Knowland to lay aside all
else and get their loans or
their jobs or their gratuities
from some government agency.
But the beam of Knowland's achievement stands out
well against the motes found
by the critics.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.