HAMTRAMCK HARMONY
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A most unusual expression of fraternal esteem between management and labor is taking place this week in Hamtramck, Mich., a city which is entirely surrounded by the city of Detroit.
Hamtramck, with a population of 50,000, has for 40 years been the home of the great Dodge Motor plant. Its ups and downs as a city follow the fortunes of the Dodge plant.
In the past two years, because of the slackening in the sales of Dodge cars, unemployment has grown and business has been bad for the merchants.
But now it anticipates a big recovery with the coming out of a line of striking new models.
Civic leaders, high officials of the UAW-CIO, and the management of the Dodge Division of the Chrysler Corp. will join in happy fraternalism.
*
Anyone unfamiliar with labor conditions in the automobile business would, of course, think this was nothing strange. It would be quite natural to expect workers and management to be enthusiastic supporters of the industry that means a common livelihood.
But no such loyalty to company has been the rule in the hard-bitten policies of the union that Walter Reuther bosses.
The utterances of the bosses of the UAW-CIO would lead the observer to believe that the companies for which their members work are benighted, stubborn, evil enemies of all progress.
It has not been at all unusual for the union to pull strikes at moments cunningly designed to cripple the company just when it needs full production the most.
In fact, in the past weeks there have been dire threats of a quick strike against Chrysler, at the moment when production on the new models must reach full speed ahead. But the high command of the UAW-CIO has withheld approval of the threatened strike of a local. And this Dodge celebration is a new manifestation of friendship.
*
The people of Hamtramck will have a first look at the Dodge models for 1955, with open house for the 31,000 employees, and their families and friends.
There will be parades and street dancing and concerts and movie stars and sports. Above all is a proposal by the town fathers to change the name Hamtramck to Dodge City. This indeed will be a bit of public relations in the true interests of all concerned.
Not only is the name Dodge City one which is rich in memories of the pioneer West, but it will signalize one of the great and romantic enterprises in the automotive industry.
It may also signalize the birthplace of a forward look in labor-management relations.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.