The decision of the U.S. Supreme Court, ruling against the rulings of two State authorities which prohibited the showing of two motion pictures, may well start street dancing by purveyors of bad pictures.
There will be rejoicing, too, by certain misguided "liberals" who contend that the Constitution says that anything can be seen by anybody.
But before the celebration gets too noisy, someone ought to tell such people exactly what the court decided. Its unanimous decision was that the banning of the two pictures was wrong for the same general reasons given by the court in the case of "The Miracle" in 1951.
In that case it was held that the direction in the law of New York, that "sacrilegious" films be banned, was altogether too vague. In the present case of the picture "La Ronde," it was held that the term "immoral" was too vague, and in the case of "M," that the objection of "tending to promote crime" was too vague.
Justice Clark, in the majority opinion in "The Miracle" case, held that "in seeking to apply the broad and all-inclusive definition of 'sacrilegious' given by the New York courts, the censor is set adrift upon a boundless sea amid a myriad of conflicting currents of religious views."
Justice Reed, concurring in the judgment, assumed that the State had the power to establish a system of licensing pictures, but would have the Supreme Court set itself up as a supercensoring body to determine whether "the principles of the 1st Amendment have been honored."
Justice Frankfurter concurred in the "judgment" with a prodigiously long opinion which reveals the fruits of ransacking the sacred writings, the dictionaries, and the encyclopedias in order to say simply that the New York Board of Regents did not know anything about sacrileges.
But Clark and Frankfurter, and, as I have indicated, Reed make it clear that the motion picture cannot enjoy unlimited liberty and that it occupies a special position regardless of the protection of the 1st (or free-speech) Amendment.
The court, throughout these opinions was careful to say that it was referring to "prior" restraints, which means that the police power can more rightfully be invoked after a picture has been shown than before. In short, that it is legal to lock the stable after the horse is stolen.
The problem now presented to the States which wish to continue censorship is to devise laws which more precisely define such things as "sacrilege," "immorality," "encouragement of crime," etc. This will be difficult.
The courts, as well as Legislatures, have been struggling with a definition of "insanity" for generations and still seem to be unable to make one.
But Legislatures have prescribed the setting up of commissions to judge individual cases. That is, of course, what the Legislatures tried to do in the case of motion pictures — i.e., delegate the specific determinations to an administrative agency.
This blow to government censorship will make it more important than ever that the industry police itself through its production code. That is at the moment under fire. The real danger is in that direction, for if the authority of the industry to regulate itself is to be flouted, nothing but chaos will result, with boycotts and other private means of suppressing bad pictures taking the place of orderly regulation.
The opinions of Justices Douglas and Black in these recent cases I shall consider in another article. For they apparently would invite the chaos of which I speak.