JACKSON'S
CAREER
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Among a number of distinctions of the late Justice Jackson was the fact that before he entered public life he had enjoyed several years of private law practice. When he was appointed, it was the rule to ignore such a qualification. In that respect Truman's appointments were better than those of his predecessor, although some were heavily larded with politics.

The career of Jackson is an interesting study in shifting ideologies. I first knew him in 1931 and 1932 as a fellow member of the New York State Commission on the Administration of Justice.

*

Jackson was appointed by the State Bar Association. He was then regarded by the conservative leaders of the Bar upstate as a most promising young lawyer. He was authentically headed for big things in practice and on the State' bench. That judgment was borne out by his attractive demeanor and devotion to the best traditions of the Bar.

In 1932 Gov. F. D. Roosevelt's counsel resigned and I urged him to appoint Jackson to the vacancy. After a cursory check Roosevelt told me that he could not take him because he was "a public utility lawyer."

I went to Jackson and told him of the horrible accusation, and he said that the only utility he ever represented was the telephone company in his home town, Jamestown, N.Y.

It was somewhat amusing later to note Jackson's rise to the highest favor with Roosevelt. He began as general counsel of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, where he conducted the government's case against Andrew Mellon.

★

The rough treatment he gave that man of wealth won the hearts of F. D. R., Frankfurter and other zealous "friends of the people." Promotion after promotion followed — Assistant Attorney General, Solicitor General, Attorney General and Supreme Court Justice. During those New Deal years there was no more flaming exponent of the great Roosevelt crusade. Jackson supported court packing in 1937 with all his energy. Truly, the quiet lawyer from Jamestown had either seen a great light or felt a great heat.

He was headed for the Governorship of New York when in a foolish moment he ventured to debate on the Town Hall of the Air on public utilities with Wendell Willkie. That debate achieved two decisive results: It started Willkie on the road to the Presidential nomination and obliterated Jackson as a vote-seeking politician. For he thoroughly proved his 1932 statement that he represented no electric utilities. No utility would have hired a man who knew so little about the business as Jackson demonstrated that fateful night.

★

On the bench Jackson seemed to revert to his early pre-New Deal ideology. For he proved to be a genuine and able defender of traditional liberties. His participation in the Nuernberg trials of the Nazis was properly subject to severe criticism. For no Supreme Court Justice should assume such a prosecutor's role. And the whole Nuernberg affair becomes harder and harder to defend.

I must confess that my own feeling about it has fundamentally changed. There was a legal case against the accused Nazis, for they were part of a conspiracy to violate the law of nations which Germany had agreed to respect, and for the violations of that law during the war those defendants were responsible.

But the court that tried them was not by any means a true international court. It was a drumhead affair set up hastily by a group of victorious nations. This fact should have occurred to Jackson as it did to the late Sen. Taft. But all in all, the Jackson of more recent years was a credit to the court.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.