It is not merely coincidental that in 1940 Sen. Hiram Johnson of California was excoriated by the war party as isolationist and that in 1954 his successor, William Knowland, is excoriated by the coexistence party as a warmonger. I have always contended that Hiram Johnson was no more of an isolationist than was, say, Wendell Willkie. He differed in that he viewed the world "not through eastern windows only." I heard him explain many times in his latter years that the greater destiny, as well as the greater perils, facing the United States was to the west, in the Pacific. He saw Europe, perhaps somewhat too narrowly, as a withered hand imploring our help, while the vast future of the lands in and beyond the Pacific were ours to share if we so chose. I am not sure that this view of Johnson represents that of Knowland, but it is clear that European opinion is making Knowland its whipping boy, just as it used to denounce Johnson, Borah, and La Follette. And now that European official and journalistic opinion will feel that its arch-enemy, McCarthy, has been crushed, it will sharpen its attacks on Knowland. But that source of criticism will find that, in widening its area of attack to include what it calls "Knowlandism" with what it calls "McCarthyism," it is taking on a most formidable opposition. For the contentions of Knowland on which he differs with some policies of the administration are far wider than opposition to Communists in our midst and in the government. His views go to the heart of foreign policy and can rally to their support a very large element of expert military opinion. The assertion that Knowland is leading an attack upon the President generally is absurd. For no one labored harder or under greater handicaps to hold the party in line in advancing what proved to be an excellent legislative program in the 83rd Congress. But in conceiving himself, as Senate leader, to be an ambassador of the Senate to the White House rather than as a representative of the President in the Senate, he is on the soundest ground of principle. It was the basic error of Sen. Barkley, after he was made leader by the "Dear Alben" intervention of the President in 1937, to believe, as he phrased it himself, that he was "carrying the flag of the President" in the Senate. It will also be the order of the day in some quarters to renew the talk about there being some sort of rivalry between Knowland and Vice-President Nixon. I have spent too many months in California in the past two years and have talked with too many people there to believe any such nonsense. The two men are friends and are ideologically very close together. It is equally nonsensical and contrary to call the Vice-President "a part of the Eisenhower administration." The Vice-President is, in the very words of the Constitution, a member of the legislative branch of the government. Only in cases in which the duties of the President "shall devolve on the Vice-President" does he become an executive officer. The position taken by Knowland in the McCarthy censure is entirely in line with his duties as a Senator. For the whole McCarthy episode is a matter that concerns the Senate and the Senate alone. And so far as the Knowland views on foreign policy are concerned, they, too, are in line with his duty as a Senator and his membership on the Committee on Foreign Relations. Constitutionally the Senate does not follow the President in foreign affairs, but shares with him that responsibility.