VANISHING
SHIPPING
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The Eisenhower administration's negative policy regarding our merchant marine, reflected in the total absence of any funds for new construction in the President's 1955 budget, coupled with the astonishing merchant marine recommendations of the Randall report, came as a heavy blow to an American enterprise that deserves better.
★
The awful lesson of two world wars and the wisdom of maintaining a merchant fleet second to none in the interest of national defense are so compelling that the peacetime role and importance of this service may be overshadowed.
One of the obvious benefits of the 1936 Merchant Marine Act was the advantage of a strong peacetime merchant marine—the essential trade route concept resulting in stability of operations, world influence for the United States and the continuity of trade development and promotion benefiting American industry.
Providing the United States with a powerful merchant marine should not be regarded as an expensive venture to bolster a "rich" industry. Under the 1936 Merchant Marine Act, subsidies received or accrued totaled $258,550,362 for the years between 1938 and 1951.
Since no subsidy was paid from 1943 to 1946, per annum cost over 10 years of subsidized operation was $14,715,832, and, unlike all other government subsidies, the ship-operating subsidy is subject to recapture. The government recovered 43% of the subsidy it paid out in those 14 years.
★
What is happening today is the gradual falling off of our merchant marine in the face of a vital resurgence of foreign merchant fleets. Great Britain leads the field in new construction. On her heels are Germany, Japan and Italy—destitute nations a few years ago. Behind the pack, in seventh place, is the United States.
After enabling foreign competition to take the lead through foreign aid, we are told by the Randall Commission to water down the aims of the 1936 Merchant Marine Act and to encourage even greater foreign competition for cargoes by eliminating legislation that stipulates that 50% of foreign aid cargoes be carried in American bottoms.
Within the next 10 years, 80% of our cargo and passenger ships will be obsolete. Eventually they must be replaced. Common sense would indicate a balanced program of building and replacement on a year-to-year basis to meet the requirements of a modern merchant fleet engaged in competition with subsidized foreign shipping.
Yet, of the 5,100,000 tons of ships launched in the world last year, only 528,307 carried the American Flag. At this very moment, not one freight or passenger ship is on the ways in our shipyards. And the Eisenhower budget assures that no sizable merchant ship will be on the ways in 1955.
Any realistic approach to the urgent merchant marine problem must recognize that the availability of foreign shipping, which we subsidized through the sale of surplus ships and government grants, and the need for dollar earnings by maritime nations are not sufficient reasons to weaken the American merchant marine.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.