BILLIONS
LIKE MAD
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It was an angry and frustrated task force of the
Hoover Commission that met
recently in San Francisco
and heard testimony on the
vast problems of reclamation.
For this group, headed by
Adm. Ben Moreell and consisting of distinguished engineers, lawyers, public officials, and former public officials, has undertaken a fundamental study of the entire problem of irrigation, flood control, public lands and hydroelectric power. Despite that, the Interior Department has proceeded to place before Congress a whole series of vast projects for authorization.

No one can accurately estimate the ultimate cost of these if constructed, but a modest estimate would run into the tens of billions.
One of these projects is the Upper Colorado Storage, Power and Irrigation Project which encompasses the entire basin of the Colorado River above the southern border of Utah. The construction cost alone would be approximately $1,000,000,000, and the ultimate cost, counting subsidies and interest, would be many times that.
Another is the Fryingpan-Arkansas transmountain diversion project, with an estimated construction cost of $172,000,000. There are at least two other, smaller projects also recommended and before Congress. This is a series of proposals that probably exceeds that of any year in past history.

The service of Herbert Hoover in giving his energies on the eve of 80 to this commission ill deserves this treatment from the administration that summoned him to the task. For if any man has eternally associated his name with reclamation and conservation, it is he.
To begin with, he is an engineer with a luminous record. It was Hoover as Secretary of Commerce who in 1926 made a statement of policy about river development which is as sound today as it was then. It was President Hoover who meticulously looked after the building of the Hoover Dam and its related accessories. The planning of that great project and the financial conditions under which it was to be repaid stand today as the soundest public undertaking of its kind in our history.
But the proposals of the Interior Department referred to above, if authorized, would not only reverse past policies of repayment, but cut the very ground from under the efforts of the Hoover Commission and its task force.

For the hearings, both on the upper Colorado project and the Fryingpan-Arkansas scheme have shown not only vital miscalculations in engineering and finance, but the attempted establishment of reclamation policies and procedures which will hopelessly engulf future generations of taxpayers in debt.
A sample of the terrific cost of irrigation is in the upper Colorado project. There would be an accumulated interest charge of $2700 per acre of land benefited. The average value of an acre would be not more than $150.
In the Fryingpan-Arkansas project, the interest subsidy alone would be around $1000 an acre on the Colorado land benefited by supplementary water.
There are also grave problems concerning the cost and possible selling price of power in these projects. In addition, it is charged by a member of the Hoover task force that in the irrigation projects of the upper Colorado plan there is no provision for a determination by soil surveys by the Department of Agriculture of the suitability of the land in question for production.
Finally, there is the unnecessary invasion of and irreparable damage to the Dinosaur National Monument.
Unless Congress is living only for next November, it might be well to pass these projects over for future consideration.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.