LONDON—The so-called experts are almost unanimous in predicting a Conservative victory in the British general election. This drift of opinion is almost frighteningly reminiscent of the thinking of Americans before Dewey’s defeat in 1948.
The political writers for the newspapers, professors and statisticians, with their figures and slide rules, Gallup polls, and all the other oracles and seers say that Eden will head the next government with a House majority running from 30 to 130.
In a poll of 30 editors taken by Newsweek magazine, 28 predict a Tory victory. The average of their guesses is a majority of 36 seats. The party balance at adjournment was 322 Conservative, 294 Labor, and nine Liberal and others.
*
The Gallup poll shows a margin in the popular vote of 3¼%. But in 1951 his figure proved to be wrong, and I would discount him. The omens which my own experience has proven to be more satisfactory lie in the electorate and in what the campaign orators are saying in the last days of the campaign. These omens look like a Conservative trend.
To begin with, there is considerable apathy, mingled with an air of discouragement, among the workers in the Labor Party. I have seen a good many of them, all the way from the party central office here in Transport House to Aneurin Bevan’s constituency far up among the snow-covered mountains of Wales. They say frankly that they cannot get their people out at meetings.
*
Only Bevan among the big shots in the Labor Party seems to be able to pack them in. And the intense jealousy of the Attlee-Morrison wing of the party keeps Labor’s best drawing card off radio and television.
A Labor agent in one spot at a considerable distance from London told me that he expected a loss of 2000 in the Labor vote in that constituency alone. If that loss should prove to be general, Labor will lose 32 marginal seats and the Conservative majority in the next House will be something like 75.
Another and still more important evidences of Labor distress is the fact that Labor speakers are offering all sorts of alibis.
In fact, they are almost as ingenious in this respect as has been Cockell’s manager explaining the defeat of his man in San Francisco.
*
Bevan says his people are spiritually exhausted, that the Tories rigged the boundaries of the constituencies when the redistricting was carried out since the last election, and that the newspaper owners are not giving Labor a fair deal.
Former Foreign Minister Morrison is discounting the big help given by President Eisenhower to the Conservatives in agreeing to the talks “at the summit.” He says that Labor thought of the idea first.
Other Labor spokesmen say that the current prosperity among workers is only temporary and that if the Tories win there will be more strikes. Such alibis are proof of inward fears.
*
In this election, as always, I am unwilling to offer predictions. Nothing can be taken for granted in politics. There are many factors which favor Labor to balance against the foregoing omens.
One is the remarkable stability of the overall Labor vote in the elections of 1945, 1950 and 1951. The number of Labor voters is growing, not because of conversion but because of population growth.
Among the voters at this election will be many thousands of young people who have come of age since 1951. Most of them will vote Labor. The solidarity of class feeling among workers in Britain is a very real thing.