While Sen. Byrd's attack upon the Eisenhower-Clay highway program seems to have been a fatal blow, the Virginia Senator has serious doubts about the Democratic substitute which was sponsored by Sen. Gore and successfully made the grade in the Senate.
The Gore bill kept within the general pattern of the old and tested system of Federal-State co-operation, but it is a very expensive affair. It proposes to increase the Federal contribution to a total of $12,400,000.000 over a five-year period.
The Federal contribution proposed in the Eisenhower-Clay plan would be $25,000,000,000 over 10 years. Thus, so far as money is concerned, the difference per year is not great.
The major objection of Sen. Byrd to the Eisenhower-Clay plan was its method of financing which would have created a corporation with authority to borrow outside the debt limit but whose securities would be eligible for purchase by Federal trust funds. This unprecedented means of avoiding the debt limit was also denounced by the Comptroller General.
The Gore plan, while it avoids the foregoing objection, also meets the opposition of Sen. Byrd because it would authorize vast expenditures for which Congress has made no provision in new taxes. Of the $12,400,000,000 to be spent the Federal gasoline tax would cover only $8,400,000,000. This would increase the deficit an average of $640,000,000 a year.
Sens. Martin of Pennsylvania, Bush of Connecticut and Cotton of New Hampshire, the minority members of the Senate subcommittee which favored the Gore plan, offered several other serious objections. They pointed out that the bill provided no specific plan for an interstate system and thus left the expenditure of the money at the mercy of log-rolling appropriations.
It would, the minority said, scatter "billions of politically guided Federal dollars over the country for the next five years as though they were shot from a blunderbuss these widely scattered dollars may affect votes, but they do not solve the country's road problem."
That this danger is a very real one was revealed in the long hearings before the Senate subcommittee. Representatives of State after State came in to object to the Eisenhower-Clay program because its plans for interstate highways in some way discriminated against them.
There was screaming from Colorado because, as Gov. Johnson of that State pointed out, the Clay plan for an interstate system would bypass the State. He said, "Highway No. 30 to the north up through Wyoming and Highway No. 66 to the south are going to divert traffic. Our traffic is east and west. Route 40 stops when it gets to Denver. It is a dead end under this program."
There is much to be said for the contention of Colorado just as there is concerning the complaints of other States. But the case illustrates what happens when the Federal government tries to subsidize on a large scale the construction of great transcontinental highways.
The political way through is always the longest and most expensive way around. Even if the Eisenhower-Clay plan were adopted, there would be vast pulling and hauling of the routes to accommodate the special interests of States.
The safest way would be to adopt the Byrd alternative, which would continue the present rate of Federal aid but give back to the States the 2-cent Federal gasoline tax. Then the States, by agreement among themselves, would provide for interstate travel.
An excellent example of that is the manner in which New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Indiana are co-operating in the construction of east-west toll roads which meet each other and provide the interstate driver excellent means of travel.