The retreat of the advocates of the vast Federal Upper Colorado storage, irrigation and power project seems to have turned into a rout. The latest is that Secretary McKay, who with his chief, President Eisenhower, was induced to support this monstrous spending project by the holdovers in the Bureau of Reclamation, now has pledged his word to a group of conservationists that his department will not ask Congress to build the Echo Park Dam. A month ago, a group of supporters from Colorado, Utah, New Mexico and Wyoming, including Senators, Governors and Congressmen from that region, met in Denver and reduced their demands to about half of what was included in the bill which passed the Senate in the last session of Congress. The revised plan eliminated the Echo Park Dam. Conservationists, however, are wary about agreeing to stop their opposition to the project because they fear that, after a revised bill is passed by Congress, the Echo Park Dam will be revived. In fact, Gov. Simpson of Wyoming indicated that the dam would be added later if the reduced program should be passed. Such a strategy would enable the proponents to divide the opposition, which has always been a combination of the conservationists and those who oppose the enormous spending involved in the whole project. It has been the joint opposition of the conservationists and the taxpayers' groups which has stalled the project up to now, despite its almost frantic support by the palace guard in the White House. Gov. Ed Johnson of Colorado has never been convinced that the proposal as passed by the Senate is sound. At the Denver meeting he advocated that only the Glen Canyon Dam be sought at this time. His views, however, were rejected by the supporters present, and bitter feeling resulted. It is important to note that even with Echo Park eliminated, there are still valid objections to the project. The proposed Glen Canyon Dam would be the very keystone of the whole plan. It would, so it seemed, produce a tremendous revenue from the sale of power and thus support a lot of uneconomic irrigation projects. As planned, it would be a very high dam in a class with the Hoover structure, down the river. The revenues would have to come largely from Southern California, because the dam, near the Utah-Arizona border, would be much nearer to the transmission lines from Hoover Dam than to Salt Lake City or Denver. But, there is still doubt about the engineering feasibility of the structure. There have been all sorts of drillings to determine whether the walls of the canyon could support a 700-foot dam, and the result, according to the information I have been able to get, is still doubtful. Moreover, there is a big question whether Lake Mead beyond Hoover Dam and the proposed reservoir behind the proposed Glen Canyon Dam can both be filled with the water available. There is also the predicament in which the Republican Party finds itself with falling farm prices and more surpluses. It is a poor year, indeed, to convince the American people that they ought to spend hundreds of millions on new irrigation when the administration is paying farmers to keep land out of circulation. The rickety structure of the Upper Colorado proposal should be withdrawn and an entirely new start ordered. That should put the project on ice until after the next election.