FLOOD AID
ISSUES
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Since high and destructive floods have marked the year 1956, first in New England and later in California, It may be assumed that Congress will be importuned to provide either a means of future prevention or control of such acts of nature, or a form of indemnity for those who suffer damage.

In either case there will, as always, be great differences of opinion concerning method. In fact, either control or indemnification presents serious and hitherto unanswered questions.

After the floods in the Midwest in 1951 and 1952, President Truman not only flew over the areas affected but energetically recommended methods both of control and of indemnification.

Flood-control measures run into two sources of lively controversy. In the first place, there is the issue whether large dams and levees downstream are as effective as smaller dams, reservoirs and land grading far up in the source areas. No one seems to have a final answer on this. Perhaps the problem will ultimately be met by resorting to both methods.

*

Then there is the matter of local participation in paying for flood prevention. In the beginning, the building of flood-control works was considered to be a matter of local and State concern. The vast damage to Dayton and other Ohio cities and towns in 1913 was followed by highly effective State and local action.

It was not until 1917 that the Federal government assumed specific responsibility for flood control. And even then it was assumed that the areas affected would participate. In the 1920's, especially after the great Mississippi flood of 1927, the Federal share was increased to practically 100%.

The Hoover Commission this year offered strong reasons why State and local areas should again take up a substantial share of the load. This, however, was regarded as heresy by some Democrats in Congress, and a House subcommittee set out to hold hearings in some of the areas recently affected with what seemed to be a desire to discredit the Hoover recommendations. We shall probably hear from that subcommittee in the new year.

*

The financial problems confronting flood insurance seem to be insuperable. A committee appointed by the Insurance Executives Association reported in 1952 that practical problems surrounding such forms of property damage were too great to be met by any insurance as such. The plain fact is that any so-called insurance plan would probably have to be an outright Federal indemnity in indeterminate amounts.

Meanwhile, the economic considerations that lead to great damage remain. It hardly needs demonstration that the high fertility of land close to water draws farmers into dangerous areas. And since rivers are channels of commerce, they will continue to attract commercial and industrial activities.

Some human beings have so much of a yearning for gain and so little concern for indeterminate dangers that they will continue to invite these invasions of nature's destructive power. Unless Congress finds a way to amend the daring and shortsightedness of men, it will for a long time be concerned with inconclusive methods of relief.

GRASS ROOTS
CLIPPINGS
BY KERWIN HOOVER

Correspondent Gracye Dodge White of the Lancaster (N.H.) Coos County Democrat reports that her daughter Kate has been doing some practicing teaching, and that, "Kate wrote to tell me she had received her first shiny apple. I could see she was quite excited about it."

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.