EXPENSIVE
EFFORTS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

A goodly number, perhaps a majority of Americans are convinced that the vast enterprises of our government in behalf of what is called mutual security and other names ought either to be discontinued entirely or drastically reduced. Their opinions on the subject are based upon a scattering of information, in part from the accounts of travelers returned from abroad. In part they are based upon the common-sense conclusion that, since we seem to be losing rather than gaining friends in such countries as France, Italy, England and Germany, we have wasted a lot of money intended to buy friends.
In opposition to these scraps of adverse information, Americans have been bombarded by plenty of government propaganda intended to enlarge if not to manufacture the glories and successes of our foreign spending. Indeed, the U.S. Information Agency (USIA) in 1954 asked for $204,639 just to tell the American people what a fine agency the USIA is.

★

If the $4639 part of that sum could be spent in bringing to the attention of the American people a new book, "Billions, Blunders and Baloney," by Eugene W. Castle, the American taxpayers would save a lot of money. For this account by a man who has seen the waste of American money abroad and who knows from experience the ways and wiles of propaganda is an excellent short summary of the lamentable spectacle of our expensive efforts to win friends and combat Communism in foreign lands.
Out of the wealth of information offered by Castle, I enjoyed most his account of some of our non-military adventures in France. In Paris our payrollers are occupying a dozen impressive buildings in the heart of the city. Our press agents in the USIA occupy a block-long chateau which once belonged to Baron Rothschild. It is as large as the entire Parisian diplomatic establishment of Great Britain.

★

Across the street from our immense Embassy on the Place de la Concorde is another big building occupied by USIA people. A third building, a former deluxe hotel in a very fashionable section, is the seat of the USIA library.
It seems to be the habit of this strange agency to lodge its libraries in places accessible only to well-heeled Americans who are not seeking reading matter or to those foreigners who need no conversion.
In Cairo, Castle says, the USIA library is behind a high iron fence in the swank area where the American Embassy is located. And Egyptian soldiers guard the entrance night and day.
A couple of years ago, the President said something about "book burning." His concern was imaginary, as Secretary Dulles pointed out. What he should have mentioned is book sequestration and money burning. For these libraries are intended for the masses who might be converted to Communism. That means the ordinary folks. And as Castle concludes: "The one thing that we do not need in France is more libraries." A superb privately financed library system has been in operation there since 1920.

★

The Embassy is loaded with deadheads. In the testimony of a representative of the State Department before an Appropriations Subcommittee, there was admitted the astonishing fact that there were 80 military attaches alone. They are paid by the Defense Department and housed by the State Department and are not clearly responsible to anyone.
I always thought that a military attache is supposed to get information about the military establishment where he is located and send what he learns back home. But France has little or no establishment to spy upon, and certainly nothing that would help our Defense Department. But they look fine, these officers, in cocktail bars and drawing rooms.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.