RAYMOND MOLEY:
Administration School
Program Is a Fiasco
If any responsible Minister in the British Cabinet had presented seriously a program as full of mistakes and misstatements as the school-building aid program of the Federal Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare and the U.S. Commissioner of Education, there would be loud shouts in the House of Commons of "Resign!" Later on, at a propitious time, there would be a Cabinet shake-up.
Apparently the President has been placed in a profoundly embarrassing position by the naivete of Mrs. Hobby and Dr. Brownell.
★
First there was, after weeks of leaks and preliminary suggestions of a great school program, the message of the President on Feb. 8. In that he was induced to say that there is an accumulated deficit of 300,000 classrooms and, in addition, a need for 50,000 more to keep up with the growing numbers of the population.
In all, the number that finally got into the program was 407,000 rooms. The cost estimated by the President was seven billion dollars, to be supplied by Federal, State, and local outlays. He was induced to say that large Federal aid was required.
Much if not all of the information furnished to the President by Mrs. Hobby and Dr. Brownell came from a school facilities survey.
★
Then there was a great buildup, with statements by many pressure groups. Some of these, like the left-wing National Farmers Union, objected to the plan only because it was too small.
A little later, it was learned that the Commission on Intergovernmental Relations had an excellent task force on education, which had prepared a report denying the contentions of the administration about the need for school building.
Thus, on this as on other things the administration has chosen to go ahead without waiting for the reports of its own commissions.
Criticism mounted during the month of March, and finally, on March 29, Secretary Hobby made the astonishing and, to the advocates of Federal handouts, frightening statement that "new State figures" indicated that not 407,000 rooms, but only 176,000 would be the deficit. But Mrs. Hobby blandly asserted that the program should still be enacted.
★
What "program" she meant was a bit difficult to determine.
Hearings going on this week show even more glaringly the complete fiasco in which the Secretary and the Commissioner of Education have involved the administration.
If this were a Democratic administration that had made such a blunder, there would be screams from conservative Republicans.
Since many of the Democrats in Congress have gone overboard for the President's plan (except that they wanted more), they cannot really take advantage of the situation.
But a stalwart advocate of economy, Steve Stahl of the Oklahoma Public Expenditures Council, has presented testimony based upon analyses of the administration's school facilities survey by 20 taxpayers' groups in that number of States.
The conclusion of Stahl on the basis of this check is that the administration's school facilities survey is "one of the great frauds of the 50s."
A considerable number of representatives of State taxpayers' groups followed Stahl in denouncing the whole plan.
★
Among them was George E. Stringfellow of the New Jersey group, who said that "if the Federal government really wants to help the States, it will balance its budget and reduce the debt load."
It is quite true, of course, that the Secretary and the Commissioner were misled. But a President is entitled to have people around him who are not so easily deceived.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.