PLANS TRIED AND FOUND WANTING
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
At the moment, both parties are seeking the farm vote by methods and promises that are not wholly sincere. Morally the Republican side has a bit more to commend it, because it is being condemned for a plan which has not yet had a chance to demonstrate its value.
In 1952 Candidate Eisenhower pointed out that the farm support program then in operation would under the law have to run through the 1954 crop year. Beyond that, the plan enacted at President Eisenhower's request is yet to be tried. It provides a moderately flexible price support, which is intended to discourage excessive planting.
★
This plan goes into effect with the present 1955 crop. Before anyone can know how it will work Democrats are crying out for a rigid 90% support plan.
The Democratic position is therefore opposed to a plan which has not been tried and in favor of a plan which has been tried with out success. If the farmer buys that argument from Democratic politicians, he will indeed be proving the truth of the funny stories about his weakness for frauds and fakes.
The administration, at least as long as Secretary Benson is in office, will stand pat on the basic program which it has held through all of the argument of the last two and three-quarters years.
But both parties put high on their list of promises the development of vast new irrigation projects, notably the Upper Colorado project which passed the Senate in the last session with plenty of support from both sides of the aisle.
Majority Senate Leader Johnson in his announcement of plans for next year is not only for 90% parity but for all the spending plans of the Eisenhower administration, including "the development of the Colorado River basin."
President Eisenhower has already said that he was deeply disappointed at the failure of the Colorado River er plan to pass the House this year.
If ever there was insincerity, it is this demand for more acres in production and more crops to support while the major domestic problem is to find a way to deal with surpluses already in existence.
★
Those who are demanding the irrigation of 366,000 acres will tell you that their request is reasonable because there will be a shortage of food in 20 years or so. But there is no authentic proof of such a potential shortage. In fact, we may still be paying billions in 1975 because the improvement in methods, plus new land in cultivation where irrigation is not required, will outrun the growth in mouths to feed and bodies to clothe.
In short, the Bureau of Reclamation is striving to bring millions of new acres into cultivation while other agencies of government are trying to find what to do with what is now hanging over the market.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.