THE BRAZEN BIDDING
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
While no one can deny
the barefaced politics in
the Democratic proposal to
hand to every income-tax
payer a credit of $20 each
for himself and his dependents the Eisenhower administration and the Republican 83rd Congress brought this embarrassment upon themselves.
The demagogic assumption of Rayburn, Jere Cooper and other Democratic leaders last year was that the small deduction from taxes on dividends proposed by the administration and passed by Congress was "relief for the rich."
It was, of course, no such thing. The only people who could feel such a deduction as "relief" were people in the lower-income brackets who were living on savings invested in securities. For the amount, $50 the first year and $100 a year thereafter, would hardly be noticed by people with large incomes.
*
The Eisenhower administration, however, was going down the middle of the road. It recognized that there is an unjust double tax on the income from investments already but instead of putting an end to the injustice by eliminating it entirely it decided to shave it just a little.
In that way it provided a weapon for the opposition without providing any real relief. The reduction of the tax on dividends was therefore a feeble gesture which has now provided a serious political issue for the opposition.
It also introduces into politics the vicious practices of brazen bidding for votes by something exactly equivalent to handing out cash gifts. This is democracy reduced to its lowest elements.
*
Speaker Rayburn has quite accurately been given credit for being good-humored, loyal to his party and patient as a presiding officer. He has never been credited with much imagination.
This deficiency is clearly illustrated in this $20-a-head proposal. It is as old as the practice of paying on the barrelhead in some benighted communities in this great republic a flat sum in cash for each vote.
Except for the cost of bookkeeping and administration this tax reduction is no better than a flat decree by Congress to give each taxpayer and his dependents a $20 bill outright.
★
The excuse for this proposal also lacks even the somewhat specious but indirect proposal of last year in which Sen. George suggested raising the exemptions to provide spending money to head off a depression.
Rayburn and his colleagues who are offering the $20 vote bait cannot conjure up a depression threat. All that they have is the claim that since the "rich" were rewarded in an even-numbered year the "poor" have it coming in an odd-numbered year.
This sort of seesaw politics can well be the fatal malignancy that can destroy all pretense of free and orderly government. For no economic system can stand it. The money to support the present expenditures of the Federal government simply does not exist in the high incomes.
It was stated on the unimpeachable authority of the Tax Foundation last year that if all individual incomes over $10,000 were taxed 100%, the additional yield would be only $4,700,000,000. That would leave about 58 billion dollars to be paid by corporations and by those in the lower-income levels.
★
And since a corporation tax is substantially an excise passed on to the consumer in higher prices, the lower incomes would have to support that too. John D. Rockefeller Jr. pays only an infinitely small portion of the 52% corporation tax. It is paid by the millions of Joe Doakeses when they buy shoes, diapers or gasoline.
Finally it should be remarked that this whole issue might have been avoided by the Eisenhower administration in another simple way. It might have spent less and thus balanced the budget this year and last.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.