LONDON — Political advantage was probably far from Eisenhower's mind when he agreed to the pleas of the Foreign Ministers that he should attend high level talks with the heads of other states, but the effect on the national election here will be considerable. Moreover, his agreement could not have been better timed, for on the evening after the good news reached the Foreign Ministers in Paris, Harold Macmillan, the British Foreign Minister, was scheduled to make his television debut to the electorate over here. The nationwide addresses of each party are strictly limited, and this was Macmillan's big opportunity. He did well and gave new hope to a truly frightened nation. ★ The Socialists say in this campaign that the real, basic issue is economic. According to such leaders as Attlee and Morrison, it is the right and duty of the nation to see that the economic resources of the nation are controlled by the nation's government. But the economic issue is not uppermost in the minds of the electors whom the Labor Party is trying to capture. Their concern is with the danger of war, and, to a secondary degree, national service in the armed forces. The latter is especially important to the younger voter. The former is a haunting fear in every-one. Americans should readily appreciate this fear. This island is densely populated, highly industrialized, utterly dependent upon the outside world, and so far as distances are concerned, it is under the very bomb-sights of the forces behind the Iron Curtain. ★ Unlike Americans, these British have suffered under the cruel blows of air warfare. The new terror of the air is a grim reminder of a dreadful past and a perilous future. When I was here for the election five years ago there was passed around the constituencies by the Labor Party the suggestion that Churchill was a warmonger. The word then was "Whose hand is on the trigger?" The whisper now is "Whose hand is on the bomb?" In that campaign five years ago Churchill, keenly aware of the potency of those whispers and mutterings, came out for what are now called "summit talks" on disarmament and peace among the heads of state. ★ The Labor Party in Parliament after much discussion agreed that Britain should proceed with the making of the H-bomb. Aneurin Bevan himself, presumably as the price of his return to the party, agreed that the bomb should be made, but now he has devised a proviso that he hopes will have some effect upon uneasy voters and be an advance beyond what his opponents have to offer. He says that while the bomb should be made there should be no tests of it for, according to his appeal, such explosions fill the air with deadly dust and mist. The Conservative reply is that as a party they are united and can effectively negotiate with other nations in the interest of peace, for, as Eden has said, how can a mandate be given to a divided party?