ROOT OF THE YALTA TRAGEDY
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A highlight of the documents issued by the State Department which purport to be the "relevant" records of the Yalta conference is that Roosevelt believed that military considerations made it necessary to get Russia into the war against Japan.
Because of this belief, Roosevelt is supposed to have made almost every concession that Stalin asked. Upon this point depends almost the entire responsibility for decisions which made Communism paramount in Asia.
The question at issue is whether our military authorities actually believed that the aid of Russia was essential to a relatively quick victory in the Far East. It has been the contention of representatives of the State Department that the preponderance of military authority did so believe.
★
Secretary of State Dean Acheson in the MacArthur hearings in 1951 said:
"It was the then military opinion (at the time of Yalta), concurred in by everyone, that the reduction of Japan would have to be brought about by a large-scale landing on the islands of Japan, and the forecast of that fighting... indicated that it would be a very bloody and terrible battle. It was of the utmost importance that the Russians should come into the war in the Far East."
Adm. Leahy, who certainly had the deep confidence of Roosevelt, says in his book, "I Was There," that seven months before Yalta Adm. Nimitz and Gen.
MacArthur, met in Honolulu and agreed "that Japan could be forced to accept our terms of surrender by the use of sea and air power without an invasion of the Japanese homeland."
It is important to note that the foremost authority on the war in the Far East, Gen. MacArthur, was not
Dean Acheson
consulted by the State Department before Yalta.
Adm. King, who was present at Yalta, had this to say on the subject in a reply to an inquiry from Sen. Knowland:
"I was agreeable to the entry of the U.S.S.R. into the war in the Far East. It was the belief of the Navy that Japan could and should be defeated without an invasion of the home islands. Our contention was that blockade and bombardment could bring about Japanese capitulation..."
"When the late President Roosevelt asked me about making concessions to Premier Stalin in order to get him to 'play ball,' I replied that I would concede him only the southern half of the island of Sakhalin. I did not attend any of the meetings between Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin."
Moreover, there was a report by 50 War Department specialists, many of whom were of high rank, strongly advising against getting the Russians into the war against Japan. A copy of this document dated April 21, 1945, reached the hands of Sen. Bridges, although he was told by the Defense Department that it was "probably destroyed."
★
This is a fairly complete reply to the statement of Acheson that "everyone" concurred in the view that invasion of the Japanese islands was necessary and that Russia should be induced to enter the war.
This strange discrepancy is not cleared up by the documents released on the Yalta conference. It is clear that Alger Hiss, representing the State Department, had far more influence on Roosevelt's decisions than MacArthur, King, and many other competent military experts.
But Roosevelt was a desperately feeble man whose tendency was to trust his own opinions on military matters and whose impulsiveness had survived his sound judgement. That was the root of the tragedy at Yalta.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.