The Valley of the Delaware River is one of the richest, most populous and vitally important areas in the world. Since it involves the vital interests of four States, the development of the river itself has long been a task which should logically be an interstate job. Delaware is deeply interested in regulating the flow of the river so that its lower reaches will not be polluted by the industry farther north and by tide-water from below. Pennsylvania has a vital interest in the control of the river so that the danger of floods will be lessened and also so that its water can be used by the State's cities and industries. New York City wants more and more water for its population. And New Jersey is concerned with all these purposes. Nineteen years ago there was created an interstate commission, composed of representatives of the four interested States, to draw plans and to promote interstate action. For convenience this commission was called Incodel. One of the policies of which Incodel was most proud was its determination that the comprehensive development of the river, costing in the neighborhood of $500,000,000, should be paid for by the States to be benefited. Except for minor aspects of the plan falling directly within the responsibility of the Federal government, the States wanted no help from Washington. All went well for some years in the development of the program, and finally the time came for action. The Legislatures of New Jersey and Delaware passed the legislation necessary for the participation of those States in a four-way compact. New York indicated that it was prepared to follow. Pennsylvania, under the leadership of Gov. Duff, was ready to act. Then Duff was succeeded by Gov. Fine, and Pennsylvania began to find excuses for inaction. A year passed and then another. The city of New York, desperate for more water from the river, secured the aid of its State government in getting its case before the Supreme Court of the United States and was given permission to tap the river for new water. New Jersey was also granted permission to take more. And Pennsylvania was permitted to build certain dams on the stretch of the river between itself and New Jersey. But these activities of individual States cannot prevent or make unnecessary a larger development by interstate action. Meanwhile, the States of New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania all elected Democratic Governors. Incodel is still alive, however, and is manifesting some optimism that Pennsylvania's Gov. Leader will be more effective than was Gov. Fine. This week a general meeting is being held to survey the chances of interstate action. It will be interesting to see whether these Democratic Governors will turn to the Federal government for help or will assert the traditional policy of their party and work out the problem at the State level.