RAYMOND MOLEY:
Hoover Commission Is
Neglected by President
Unless strong administration and Congressional support is forthcoming soon, there is great danger that the most worthy and ambitious effort in our time to reform the Federal government will either come to nothing or will be torn amid conflicting political forces.
The "old" Hoover Commission which reported more than five years ago had a limited objective. It was to avoid any study or recommendations concerning matters of policy and devote itself to methods of administration.
In other words, it was not to question why a certain function of the Federal government should be carried on, but to examine how it was being administered.
★
That was a necessary limitation, since the commission was created by the Republican 80th Congress and it was compelled to function under a Democratic administration. Herbert Hoover as chairman had excellent relations with President Truman and kept strictly within the limits of the terms of his authority.
It is only fair to say that Truman offered excellent co-operation. The result was a series of legislative enactments which measurably improved the greatly overgrown and shapeless Federal machine and saved the taxpayers a lot of money.
With that record behind him and the wholehearted goodwill of the nation, the former President was induced to undertake a new task under a Republican President and Congress, with much broader powers.
For under the terms of reference this time, the Hoover Commission can go not only into the how but the why. With the praise and the blessing of the President and the hearty approval of Congress, the labor started.
Labor is the appropriate word, too, because this was a heavy task to be undertaken by a man who had attained the ripe age of fourscore.
A series of excellent task forces was selected to do the digging, and these groups at great personal sacrifice to their members have labored long and hard.
When a task force report is received, the commission goes to work and renders its own report, which is given to the public with the task force report. Eight such reports have been issued and six more are to come.
There have been some disagreements on details among commissioners, but with one exception there has been general agreement. That exception is Rep. Chet Holifield of California, an ultraliberal Democrat who seems to have been selected by the Democratic House leadership to cause all trouble possible with the majority of the commission.
But the serious thing about the present status of the commission is not internal disagreement. It is the seeming neglect of the commission by the President and other leading members of Hoover's own party.
★
The word "neglect" is not strong enough. The fact is that the President, by proceeding with a number of proposals to Congress with no regard to the parallel work of the Hoover Commission, has affronted and frustrated its work.
With no real support of the commission from the President and the administration, certain Democrats in Congress are openly starting a campaign to discredit anything that the commission may propose.
This seems to them to be good politics, because in this manner they can once more carry on a campaign against Hoover rather than Eisenhower, whose popularity is their most anxious concern.
The net loss to the taxpayers of the country by this neglect by the President and these attacks by the opposition will be very great. It is a heavy price to pay for, politics.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.