RAYMOND MOLEY:
Essence of Bossism
Captured in a Novel
I have been intending
for some months to write
an enthusiastic note of appreciation about a remarkable, perhaps a great novel, "The Last Hurrah," by Edwin O'Connor of Boston.
While I have waited, however, 2,000,000 copies are said to have been sold, and the story has been bought by the movies.
There now appears a news item which brings the book within the realm of comment. Life magazine has published the text of a speech by James Michael Curley, four times Mayor of Boston and former Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
From the moment that the book appeared, it was assumed by readers that the inspiration for the principal character, Frank Skeffington, was no other than Curley.
*
The ex-Mayor probably has shared this opinion, but commented gruffly that it was a matter for his lawyers. Later, however, when the book attained phenomenal popularity and Frank Skeffington, the great and lovable rogue, was taken to the hearts of countless readers, Curley relented and proudly claimed that the book was "about me."
I do not find it easy to get interested in novels, especially those intolerably long affairs about four generations of the Scruggs family, their iron-mongering, and their scandals and peccadillos. I especially avoid political novels, which are usually written by somebody who never knew a real boss and never fought a campaign.
It was the last desperate moment when facing a long airplane ride, with nothing else to read at hand, that moved me to risk a purchase of the O'Connor book. It proved to be the quickest trip, for me, in my life.
For the authenticity of the author's professional capacity comes out in the first dozen pages.
The book's only rivals in the fictional literature of American politics have been the American Winston Churchill's "Coniston" and Brand Whitlock's short story, "Malachi Nolan."
The latter I believe to be the finest and most sophisticated piece of political realism in the language.
*
O'Connor, who had no such opportunity as Whitlock, had to know politics, has grasped in a way known only to genius the infinitely subtle character of a political leader whose kindly deeds and shrewd appraisal of human values and frailties make us forget plenty of roguery.
Curley, as well as his ghostly prototype, Skeffington, claims credit for many forms of human welfare which have been commonplace for centuries in great religious institutions.
Moreover, cold statistics prove that modern scientific philanthropy saves more people with less money than the lavish ministrations of a boss spending public and quasi-public money. But Curley in the flesh and Skeffington shining through the printed words of a novel represent something immortal in human nature.
★
To my surprise, the name "Curley" is absent from the biographical reference books. There is, perhaps, a bland assumption by egg-heads and reformers that men like Curley and Hague represent the last of their kind.
Nothing could be farther from the truth. For so long as a sharp wit and warm goodwill move the hearts and minds of men, political power will go to those who have those qualities. The pattern of bossism may change, but the essence is immortal.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.