SAN FRANCISCO—
There is an underlying difference between this Republican convention and the Democratic meeting last week in Chicago. In the Democratic convention little or no attention was given to the campaigns of the many party candidates for the Senate and House.
In this Republican convention the feature of the first session was the importance to the party and the President of a sympathetic Congress. Moreover, the Congressional fight this year occupies a large place in the strategy and plans of the Republican National Committee.
The Democratic convention could afford to ignore its candidates for Congress because the responsibility for electing the vital margin essential to party control has been taken over by the political arms of labor unions in this year’s campaign, the AFL-CIO Committee on Political Education, the COPE. The attitude of the Democratic National Committee is to let George Meany do it.
★
The Democratic Party will start its campaign for the House of Representatives with about 80 uncontested seats, mostly in the House. Then there are 40 or 50 fairly sure seats controlled by Democratic city bosses. The margin needed will be some 30 or 40 industrial districts in which the COPE will literally take over.
The Republican Party has no such powerful auxiliary. It has only a very popular candidate for President who, despite his political appeal, will not be sufficient to carry to victory the candidates for the House and Senate. The old idea that coattail riding can be relied upon was forever dissipated eight years ago when Truman literally was carried along by his candidates for Congress.
great importance in the campaign to come because of a claim made by Democratic spokesmen that Democrats in Congress have really been loyal supporters of President Eisenhower’s program and that
following the President while also claiming that the President had no program and was drifting aimlessly in a sea of indecision. But merely to point out this inconsistency was not regarded as sufficient by Messrs. Shoeppel and Simpson to answer a serious charge that the Republican Party in Congress has been lacking in loyalty to the President of their own party.
Their analysis has involved a complete examination of thousands of pages of the Congressional Record and hundreds of roll calls. Those roll calls are then classified in six groups, four of which can be dismissed because they either concern matters in which there was practically no party division at all or in which the President had taken no position.
The fifth and sixth groups of roll calls indicate the real test of loyalty to the President on issues of vital importance in his program. The percentages for both houses and for both the 83rd. and 84th Congresses run about the same. They show that Republicans to the extent of more than 75% supported the President and that the Democrats at a rate of slightly under 75% opposed the President’s program.
This is a very significant showing of party regularity and of co-operation between a President and his party in Congress. It will be used by Republican candidates to show that it is not sufficient to elect a President but that there should be elected a Congressional majority to support his policies.