RAYMOND MOLEY:
Oppenheimer Lecture
Bid Stirs Opposition
The early months of 1957
will see once more in controversial headlines the names of Alger Hiss and J. Robert Oppenheimer.
A New York publisher will bring out a book by Hiss which, it is rumored, will be in the nature of a general defense. If that be true, the publisher may find that the dollars to be gathered out of a twice-told tale will be few.
For the two efforts of Hiss so far to instruct the public, a magazine article and a lecture at Princeton, were dismal failures. The only book by Hiss that might not only be commercially profitable and at the same time be in the public interest would be a complete revelation of what he knows about the Communist underground which threatened us in the 1930s.
★
A Harvard alumnus, Kenneth D. Robertson Jr., has raised serious objections to a decision by Harvard authorities to have J. Robert Oppenheimer deliver the distinguished William James Lectures on Philosophy in 1957. He expressed his disagreement in several letters to Charles E. Wyzansky Jr., a Federal district judge and president of the Harvard board of overseers.
It seems to me from an examination of Robertson's letters that his objections rest upon two grounds, first, that Oppenheimer, because of the record upon which the United States Atomic Energy Commission in 1954 denied the atomic scientist access to restricted data, is not qualified to lecture on philosophy, and, second, that because of that record Harvard should not extend what is in reality a great honor, for the James Lectures are a notable part of the university's offerings to the nation and the world.
The AEC by a vote of four to one decreed that Oppenheimer was disqualified under a legal obligation laid upon it to deny access for defects of character short of treason or disloyalty. On this point the commission said:
★
"Substantial defects of character and imprudent and dangerous associations, particularly with known subversives who place the interests of foreign powers above those of the United States, are also reasons for disqualification. On the basis of the record before the commission, comprising the transcript of the hearing before the Gray Board as well as reports of military intelligence and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, we find Dr. Oppenheimer is not entitled to the continued confidence of the government and of this commission, because of the proof of fundamental defects in his 'character.'"
★
It was shown in the record that Oppenheimer's past associations "extended far beyond the tolerable limits of prudence" and that he had been untruthful in describing them to officials of the government.
In one of the letters elicited by Mr. Robertson an unnamed Harvard alumnus made this extraordinary statement:
"I certainly would consider him (Oppenheimer) a brilliant mind and a profound thinker. I do not consider that his negative qualifications, that is, his personal failings, or weaknesses, or his politics, have anything to do with his capacity as a lecturer on philosophy."
There may be many definitions of philosophy. But this statement certainly would exclude from that subject matters which from Aristotle to this day are regarded as its very essence, that is, ethics and politics.
Mr. Robertson's anonymous correspondent as well as the authorities at Harvard overlook another matter closely connected with the qualifications of Oppenheimer as a lecturer. As a scientist in the full confidence of the government he and others strenuously opposed the development of the hydrogen bomb. This was not the scientist or even the philosopher in a narrow sense acting. It was a man who was projecting his political ideas into his activities as a scientist.
★
For the decision whether the hydrogen bomb should be developed was not a scientific one. It was a question of national policy. And thanks to President Truman, it was a decision which was finally made by the political head of the government upon whom there rested the duty of knowing what other countries were doing and what should be done to preserve our safety.
Therefore, can it be expected that Oppenheimer, as a lecturer on philosophy, can be expected to limit his observations to his narrow competence as a scientist?
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.