HUNTINGTON, W.Va.—
The State of West Virginia has been generally Democratic so long that most political observers write it off like Rhode Island and Alabama. Since 1932 it has been dependably Democratic—before that, reliably Republican.
Even in 1952 Stevenson carried the State with a comfortable 34,000, while its Senatorship went Democratic by twice that. In 1954 its 4th Congressional District was lost by the Republicans by a narrow margin.
*
But things are happening here that may shift the political balance. The Ohio Valley is booming with the influx of major industries, notably chemicals and aluminum. The coal industry is rapidly reviving because its use in developing electric power for industry is becoming more efficient each year. The region has everything that is required for an American Ruhr.
Hence there is a movement of population and a rise of living standards that may well change political habits. For this reason, my assistant and field worker, Raymond Moley Jr., spent last week in the State and makes the following report on the current political situation:
"Not only is there a United States Senator to be elected for a full term to take the seat long held by the late Harley Kilgore, but the advancing age of Sen. Matthew Neely sharpens the race for Governorship—the office that would make the appointment for his successor.
*
"The Democratic candidate for the Senate is the present Governor, William C. Marland. There is pretty general dissatisfaction with Marland’s record as Governor. Incompetence and corruption have been freely charged against the State government. Marland is apparently not a candidate who elicits public enthusiasm.
"On the other hand, his opponent, Chapman Revercomb, who served in the Senate from 1943 to 1949, has powerful enemies among racial groups and labor. The outcome may depend upon the size of the turnout on election day.
★
"For the Governorship, the Democratic candidate is Robert H. Mollohan who now represents the 1st District in the House of Representatives. He is opposed by Cecil Underwood, a Republican and an attractive candidate well known over the State.
"In 1954 Republican Congressman Will E. Neal was defeated in the 4th District by W. G. Burnside, whose winning margin was only 504 votes. Neal is a well-known and respected Huntington physician who looks 20 years younger than his lusty 80. He defeated Burnside before, with Eisenhower running, and may well do it again this year. Burnside is an eager-beaver sort of person, a former professor with intensely visionary and leftist views.
★
"The Republican cause will be greatly helped by an able, attractive State chairman, John Hoblitzell Jr. He has avoided party divisions and has energized the State organization.
"What he needs is more active help by the business community, not only in the shape of money but of manpower."
On this trip to Huntington I found that Hoblitzell’s need may well be met by the energetic support of the business community. Leading businessmen are realizing the stake that they have in a Republican Congress and the need for more business in politics. Their activity may well overcome the Democratic margin not only in the 4th District but in the 1st and in the Governorship and the Senatorship as well.