RESULTS OF POLL:
NIXON'S THE MAN
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In order to show the flimsy character of Harold Stassen's claims about the Vice-President's unpopularity in California the Los Angeles Times last week employed a reputable private research agency, Facts Consolidated, to take a preference poll on the Republican Vice-Presidential nomination among California voters. The samples were much larger than are usually taken in polls and they were taken in all sections of the State.
Several pertinent questions were asked. The first called for a straight choice between Gov. Herter and the Vice-President. The percentages of choice were 62.7 for Nixon, 24.4 for Herter, 12.9 undecided. This question, it is important to note, was presented only to people who said they planned to vote for Eisenhower.
A second question was presented to all voters—Democratic, Republican and "independent." The percentages were, in order of preference, Nixon, 52; Herter, 8.4; Knight, 7.7; Stassen, 6.9; Henry Cabot Lodge, 3.1; others and declined to answer, 21.9.
There was also a question to show preference between Eisenhower and Stevenson. This showed 50.1% for the President; 32.7 for Stevenson, and 17.2 for others or undecided. This question was presented to all voters.
As soon as this poll was made public Stassen began making statements in Washington. He also addressed a long telegram to Norman Chandler, publisher of The Times. In his telegram Stassen said that since only 50.1% were for Eisenhower and 62.7% of those were for Nixon, then Nixon was the choice of only 31.4% of California voters. But if this method is applied to the Herter preferences, then Herter would only be the preference of 12.2% of the voters.
But hardly had this telegram been dispatched than Stassen found a way to escape from the trap in which he found himself. He said that "his studies" indicated that if there were a change of candidates from Nixon to Herter many of the Nixon 62.7% would change over. This, of course, is something that cannot be proved by any sort of polling.
Now let us get away from all this confusion of statistics and guesses and look at a fundamental proposition.
★
In this country we have something called two-party government. Each of two parties carries the responsibility of selecting candidates whom the legally constituted officers of the parties believe most likely to win, the candidates who will most likely serve the country best and thus deserve approval at elections to come. Those legally constituted people cannot and should not turn over that responsibility to any pollster. They, in the Republican Party, have generally decided that Nixon should be given a renomination for Vice-President.
They are for the most part practical politicians confronted with a choice. Will the ticket lose more votes by running Nixon than by opening up the question?
A Vice-Presidential candidate seldom, if ever, gains votes for the head of the ticket. Mostly, he loses votes for him. The best advice I know was given by the uncannily smart Ed Flynn, Roosevelt's closest political adviser, in 1944 when the name of Wallace came up. "Choose the man," said Flynn to Roosevelt, "who will hurt you least." That choice was the relatively unknown Senator from Missouri.
The situation now is not exactly like the one which faced Roosevelt. In that case the responsible, legally constituted leaders of the party had told Roosevelt that they could not carry their States with Wallace.
In the present instance the legally constituted leaders of the Republican Party have said that their problems will be best answered with no change in the ticket. They prefer Nixon. The conclusion of the President now is probably exactly what it was in the other instance—namely, that a President who believes in party government will follow the judgment of his party leaders. That is the way of responsible party government.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.