Kentucky is a State where Republican efforts could be richly rewarded in November. Two Democratic Senate seats are at stake. One House seat was held by a very narrow Republican margin in 1954. And Eisenhower lost Kentucky in 1952 by a mere 700 votes. The following is the substance of a report from my assistant, Raymond Moley Jr., who has been traveling in the State. Republican chances there are bright this year, not because the GOP organization has gathered great strength but rather because for many months two Democratic factions have been earnestly after each other's scalps. One is led by Gov. A. B. (Happy) Chandler; the other, by Sen. Earle C. Clements and former Gov. Lawrence W. Weatherby.

Last year Chandler bounced back into public life by snatching the Governorship from a Clements-Weatherby candidate in the primary. The next test of strength went to Clements and Weatherby. For in the spring primary Chandler saw his candidate for Clements' Senate seat beaten. After Alben Barkley's death the Democratic State Central Committee ignored Chandler's choice of a candidate for the unexpired term and named Weatherby. Chandler then announced that the Clements faction had spurned his efforts to unite the party and that Weatherby was "the weakest possible man they could have chosen." Bitterness between Chandler and Weatherby has been personal as well as political. June brought another turn. Through county and State conventions the Gov-
ernor won absolute control of the Democratic organization. Some people regard Chandler as a grinning, wisecracking buffoon, but those who know him well realize that there is a streak of deadly intent and conviction in the man. He really believes that he will one day be President. He believed he had a chance this year and said that Stevenson could not beat Eisenhower, and could not carry Kentucky. Since July Chandler has done nothing to further the Democratic cause. He has, in fact, announced that he will not instruct State employees, who are almost all without Civil Service status, to get out and work in the campaign. Nor will he allow the traditional "bite" from their salaries for Democratic campaign funds. What with his sense of destiny, Chandler may feel that 1960 will be "his year" if Stevenson loses in November. He was conveniently out of the State when Kefauver came through, but he was the first to greet Eisenhower when the President's plane touched Kentucky ground. He will be "away" when Stevenson arrives. And so it appears that the feet-dragging of the Governor and State organization may be a decisive brake on Democratic hopes in Kentucky. John Sherman Cooper, former Republican Senator and Ambassador to India, is highly regarded and should win against Weatherby. Republican Thruston Morton will have a more difficult time unseating Clements. Both are campaigning with determination. In the 3rd Congressional District (Jefferson County-Louisville) the Republicans should be in good shape. They held this seat by 50.2% in 1954 when Sen. Cooper received a 1704-vote margin over Alben Barkley in the district. A number of factors should help incumbent John M. Robison Jr. Barkley is dead. Thruston Morton is popular in the district, and it was Morton who wrested it from the Democrats in 1946 and represented it for three successive terms. Eisenhower is strong in Louisville. While the CIO has endorsed the Democrat, Philip Arderly, the AFL has not. Labor is split on this race.

Eisenhower may reverse the State's Presidential outcome of four years ago and by a much more substantial margin. The 3rd District is capable of producing a Republican majority of up to and beyond 20,000; the big 8th District could come through with as much as 45,000. Today Kentucky cannot be considered a "sure Democratic State." The heart of the matter is that Chandler is not throwing any switches of his powerful machine for the Democrats.