RAYMOND MOLEY:
Hidden Billions Go
Beyond the Budget
In an extraordinarily informative article by Monroe W. Kermin in the Wall Street Journal there is a compilation of the spending items for the fiscal year 1958 which are not included in the $71,800,000,000 estimated by the President's budget.
His addition comes to 96 billion dollars as the total outlay of the Federal government in that year.
A great part of these extra expenditures comes from the trust funds established from time to time over the past three decades. The outgo from these funds has been increasing rapidly and will continue to increase in the future. Four years ago they paid out $5,300,000,000; this year they will expend 12 billion dollars, and next year $14,400,000,000. Some of these are the new highway fund which will spend $1,700,000,000; a miscellaneous fund entitled "labor and welfare," $3,500,000,000, and the Social Security fund, $7,400,000,000, up from $5,600,000,000 last year. There are a number of lesser funds which make up the total of the additional outlays.
In addition to these payments from trust funds, which some people like to designate as savings but which have no similarity to an individual's savings, there are many other ominous promises of spending to come.
One of the easiest to explain is a number of items under the title "Natural Resources." Small beginning expenditures are provided on 30 projects for irrigation, water supply, navigation, flood control, and a power plant. Presumably this was intended to answer the political attack in the Northwest to the effect that the Eisenhower administration was laggard in "new starts."
It must be noted that every one of these projects will have to be completed, some of them over a period of years. For navigation and flood control there is no repayment at all from private beneficiaries. For irrigation there is a nominal repayment from the farmers who occupy the irrigated land. But under the law no interest is paid, and the period of repayment may run over half a century.
The fact is that when the Bureau of Reclamation two years ago published an accounting of these projects running back to the Reclamation Act of 1902 only two had been paid for.
The giant Upper Colorado project, authorized last year, will get only a small amount in fiscal 1958, but as the years pass the expenditures on that will run into the hundreds of millions.
It must also be noted that some of the government's adventures in the power business such as the Southwestern and Southeastern Power Administrations are running in the red. Congress will no doubt bail them out with appropriations instead of compelling their customers to pay higher and more legitimate rates. These ventures will probably lose and lose as the years pass.
Moreover, the budget message recommends new authorizations such as the Arkansas-Frying Pan plan to pierce the Continental Divide and to bring water from the west to the east slope of the Rockies in Colorado.
It should finally be noted that the President's estimate of income for next year is very optimistic indeed. It assumes a continuing prosperity, which is certainly not generally expected by economists. A slight turn in the business curve would bring about a sizable deficit. For it must be remembered that under the present graduated scale of taxation a slight drop in earnings takes a disproportionate bite out of tax returns.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.