RAYMOND MOLEY:
Reviewer Reviewed,
the Appeal Appealed
The latest in an apparently interminable series of last words is an appeal through paid advertising by Alfred Knopf, Inc., from the general agreement among book reviewers concerning Knopf's offering, "In the Court of Public Opinion," by Alger Hiss.
The reviewers have almost without exception pointed out that the book mulls over the stale stuff of the two trials and appeals, and that what is new is too preposterous to be believed. It has been pointed out, moreover, that the book is deadly dull.
And so—after two trials, with a conviction in the second, and with appeals therefrom to the Circuit Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court, with a later motion for a new trial which was denied, and appeals again to the higher courts, and with no executive action—the roundelay begins again.
*
It begins now in a new sphere—that amorphous matter called public opinion. Thus there are reviews of reviews of reviews. And after the paid advertising has been answered, there will be more and more appeals. Perhaps a less expensive method would be to give the book away.
So far as I have seen, the latest in the nature of paid advertising is a reproduction of carefully selected excerpts from a review of the book by Alistair Cooke, described as the "chief U.S. correspondent of the Manchester Guardian." The entire review, not just the favorable parts published in the advertisement, shows Alistair Cooke to be in a strangely confused state of mind—a state which has been obvious in most of what he has written when dealing with serious subjects.
The Cooke confusion seems to be derived from his sentimental approach to public questions, plus his chronic disposition uncritically to accept literacy and education as the only measure of intelligence.
*
Cooke seems to be mystified, therefore, by what seems to have been the ineptness of Hiss. That is just the point that has been apparent all the time. Hiss was the beneficiary of all that American education could provide. But he was not very bright.
The entire Chambers friendship was a curious mark of the Hiss taste. With due respect to the great contribution later made by Chambers, he was a shoddy, irresponsible, mentally twisted fellow, living from hand to mouth, borrowing, trading, sponging on others. There is no evidence in the Hiss experience in a long series of jobs, from the Harvard Law School to the Carnegie Endowment, of any great skill or creativeness.
This latest effort attempts, through more than 400 dreary pages, to make "public opinion" believe that since Chambers had access to the Hiss typewriter, instead of copying directly on that typewriter, he chose instead to go through the enormous task of making a duplicate machine and thus commit forgery by typewriter. That job of creating an exact duplicate would take months and thousands of dollars, both of which essentials Chambers did not have. This point was disposed of by three courts. It is preposterous.
But Cooke, after saying in his review that he would have convicted Hiss in the second trial, and, a few paragraphs later, that the proper verdict should have been "not proven," ends his rambling review by commenting that "disinterested brains" should look into the question whether there was a miscarriage of justice.
This Cooke suggestion should be considered in the light of the book he wrote in 1950 for Alfred Knopf, Inc., "A Generation on Trial, U.S.A. vs. Alger Hiss." In that book he asserts that "probably there are just as many innocent men set free as go to jail, even after jury trials." The inference here as elsewhere is that the innocent are often convicted. This is due to the "essential absurdity" of the manner in which courts, in the long Anglo-Saxon tradition, take and evaluate evidence.
Cooke also has utter contempt for our Congressional methods of operation. The House committee of which Richard Nixon was the most active member was, according to Cooke, "a discredited body" and in his 1957 review he turns to the theme:
*
"Dave Beck is not the last of the victims of this period—this dark period."
The American press is also a matter of deep concern to Cooke. In his 1950 book he speaks of "the gallivantings of a drunken press."
He also says in that book he reported the two Hiss trials for his paper. He also covered the 1952 Presidential campaign, and in September of that year reported that "Eisenhower is going to have a hard time topping 200 votes."
His guess was that Stevenson would "wind up with something like 309 votes." As the campaign proceeded, his affection for Stevenson increased. And so the election, to him, was "a dance of death." He decided that America just wasn't good enough to appreciate Stevenson.
Maybe, considering the fact that our courts have a habit of convicting the innocent, that our Congress is discredited, and our press a creature of bias and hysteria, America isn't good enough for Alistair Cooke.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.