What's a Senate Leader?
Walter Lippmann:
The President is in serious political
trouble which stems from a rebellion,
one might almost call it a revulsion of
feeling, within the Republican Party.
Suddenly, within the course of about
three months, the adulation which was his
last autumn has been followed by a general
feeling among the professional politicians
that it is risky to support Eisenhower
and profitable to oppose him.
Mr. Knowland, the Republican leader
in the Senate, is running for President on
an anti-Eisenhower platform, and there
are only a handful of Republican Senators
who are standing by the President.
The Vice-President is proceeding like a
submarine in hostile waters, mostly
submerged, and when he must come to the
surface, he shows as little of himself as
possible for anyone to shoot at.
*
The uprising threatens to go far beyond
the attack on the size of the budget.
There is, for example, grave danger that
Mr. Knowland, seconded by Mr.
Hickenlooper, may cause the Senate to
humiliate the President by failing to ratify
the treaty on the peaceful uses of atomic
energy. If this is done, the Republican
Senators will be making a horrible mockery
of the Republican platform in which they
declared that "one leader in the world today
towers above all others and inspires the
trust, admiration, confidence and goodwill
of all the peoples of every nation"—Dwight
D. Eisenhower.
The treaty, which is now in the Senate
and should be ratified at this session, would
put no burden on the budget.
*
The fissionable materials to be delivered
by the United States to the international
agency will be furnished on a business basis
and not as a gift. So if ratification fails it
will be because the Republican leadership is
opposing the President on a momentous
issue of policy and not because it is trying to
reduce the budget.
This would inflict a profound humiliation
upon the President and do great damage to
the confidence of the nations of the world in
the pledges and promises of the U.S.
government. The history of the treaty
provides unanswerable proof that if this
treaty is not ratified, the U.S. government
will have misled the 80 nations who have
followed the leadership of President
Eisenhower.
The treaty, which is known as the Statute
of the International Atomic Energy Agency,
carries out faithfully the proposals which the
President made on Dec. 8, 1953, in his dramatic
personal appearance before the General
Assembly of the United Nations. He then
outlined the functions of the agency which
the treaty would establish, and he told the
United Nations that "the United States
would be more than willing—it would be
proud—to take up with others principally
involved the development of plans whereby
such peaceful uses of atomic energy would be
expedited. Of those principally involved the
Soviet Union must, of course, be one. I
would be prepared to submit to the Con-
Raymond Moley:
The suggestion has been made in some
quarters that since Sen. Knowland finds
himself unable to support certain parts of
the President's program, he should resign
his position as Senate minority leader.
The basis of this idea lies in a concept
altogether too commonly held, that the
Republican leaders in Congress are the
President's men, that their function is to
present the President's wishes to Congress
and that they go dutifully every week or
more often to the White House to get their
orders.
This concept has been accepted even by
some of the leaders themselves. In a famous
clash with President Roosevelt in 1944, Sen.
Alben Barkley said in an impassioned speech
to the Senate that "for the past seven years,
I have carried the flag of the administration
as majority leader of the Senate." Then he
concluded his speech by announcing his
resignation as majority leader.
The occasion for that clash was a message
from the President vetoing a tax bill on
which both houses had labored and which had
been passed by an overwhelming vote. The
two houses hurled their defiance at the
President by passing the bill over the veto—
the House 3 to 1, the Senate 5 to 1.
*
This vote was not only a mark of
indignation over the offensive language of
the President in his veto message but an
affirmation that bills for raising revenue
were on a basis different from other legislation
and that the unprecedented veto in that case
was a violation of a sacred tradition. The
Senate, by promptly re-electing Barkley as
majority leader, made another point clear—
that the officers of Congress were responsible
only to Congress, that their function was to
act whenever necessary to carry the views of
their respective houses to the President, and,
when necessary, to carry his views to
Congress.
But that liaison was by no means to be
interpreted as subservience to the President.
In short, the Senate in re-electing Barkley
repudiated the very statement of the majority
leader that he was carrying the flag of the
President. He was to carry only the flag of
the Senate in matters concerning the Senate
as a whole or the majority thereof. It is
obvious that in specific legislation a Senator
is to be the servant only of the voters of the
State which elected him.
*
It is true that since the days of Theodore
Roosevelt the concept of a strong executive
has been popular and that the President is
the leader of his party. Woodrow Wilson
believed that the President carried as much
power and authority as the individual capacities
of the incumbent might wield. This role, so
energetically acted by Wilson, had a bad end.
In 1918 he asked for an obedient Congress,
but the country said "No." His failure to take
any representatives of the Senate to the making
of the peace in Versailles greatly contributed
to his ultimate frustration.
The independence of the officers of the two
houses of Congress is never so important as
in matters involving finance. For constitutional
government is rooted in the tradition that the
legislative branch of the government, not the
executive, should control the purse.
Sen. Knowland not only is right in his
concept of his responsibility but has affirmed a
great constitutional principle.
gress of the United States, and with every
expectation of approval, any such plans . . .
There is no doubt therefore that the
present treaty is an American project, launched
publicly and officially in the presence of the
United Nations by the President of the United
States. It then took nearly three years to
negotiate the treaty, and the representatives
of the United States have played a leading part
in the negotiations.
*
Last October the draft of the treaty was
adopted unanimously by the conference at the
United Nations in which 81 governments,
including the Soviet Union, were represented.
President Eisenhower was then a candidate for
re-election on a platform, adopted unanimously
by the Republican convention. Sen. Knowland
and Sen. Hickenlooper were delegates at the
convention and they subscribed to the platform
which boasted that "President Eisenhower has
inaugurated and led a strong program for
developing the peaceful atom—a program
which has captured the imagination of men
and women everywhere with its widespread,
positive achievements."
Just before election the President himself
sent a message to the U.N. conference of the
81 nations which had approved the treaty. He
said, "I wish my country to be among the
first to recognize by official action what you
at this conference have accomplished," and he
went on to say that once the agency was
established the United States would make
available to it "nuclear materials that will
match in amount the sum of all quantities of
such materials made similarly available by all
other members of the international agency."
*
This was a public promise, and so far as I
know Sen. Knowland did not raise his voice by
way of protest or even of caution. This raises
many questions, not the least of them, what
are the moral responsibilities of a party leader
in the Senate. I know that a Senator is the
freely elected representative of a sovereign
State, and that in the letter of the law he can
vote as his conscience or as his constituents
dictate. But has the leader of a party no
obligations beyond those of an individual
Senator? Is the power which he holds because
he is the elected leader something which
belongs to him personally, or is it a trust which
carries with it obligations? Does it not carry
with it the obligation to caution the President
before he is totally committed to a great project
and if, in matters of the greatest moment like
this treaty, he cannot support the President, is
it not then his obligation to resign his
leadership?
For certainly it cannot be good public
morals for the Republican leader of the Senate
to place the President of the United States in a
position where, by the action of his own party,
he stands in serious danger of being repudiated
and humiliated in the presence of all the world.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.