SCHOOL
USE
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
If the president of an industrial establishment came before his board of directors with a proposal for enlargement of his plant, one of the first questions he would have to answer would be whether he was already using to its full capacity the plant already built. If he were to answer that a quarter of his plant and staff were unused, the board would probably fire him forthwith.
The immense array of school administrators who are now engaged in bombarding Congress with demands for new Federally financed school construction are in the same position as this industrial administrator. In general, they are using their school plant only on a part-time basis and offering their teaching talent only a part-time job at part-time pay. And nothing but tradition can justify the position in which they find themselves.
*
The forthcoming Governors' conference at Williamsburg, Va., is going to put some very pointed questions to the advocates of Federal aid for school construction. The most important topic on the agenda will be ways and means to secure more effective and extensive use of the public school plant, equipment and personnel.
A memorandum prepared by the Council of State Governors for the conference points out that when the present nine-month school year was established, with the summer for vacation, a major consideration was the need to put the older children to work on the farm or in the farm kitchen. In past years there was a considerable dropping-off of attendance among the older boys in farm communities in late April and May.
*
That sort of thing is now largely a matter of history and already in a few city schools systems there has been a trend toward a longer school year. In New York City, school will continue this year to June 28 and will resume on Sept. 10.
There are many possible means by which a more efficient use of school plants and teachers might be accomplished. Some plans have already been adopted by progressive educators. The solution must be found through experimentation, if at all. And the final result might be many different plans according to local conditions and preferences.
The fundamental means of relief, however, would be to reduce the wholly unnecessary vacation period now quite prevalent and thus make more efficient use of facilities and personnel.
So far as the teaching profession is concerned, any such trend toward efficiency should be welcomed. For it would put the teachers' working year on a basis similar to that of other people who are employed with vacation periods of two, three or four weeks. This would mean more pay and, in many places, the elimination of the teacher shortage that we are hearing so much about.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.