RAYMOND MOLEY:
Bright Omen for GOP
in Subway Muddle
Without the casting of a
single vote, or the passing
of a law, or a speech, or
the wiggle of a finger
in the administration in
Washington, Republican
hopes of carrying New
York next year have increased 100%.
A Republican State Senator from Manhattan launched a plan for release from an arrogant labor monopoly and ended a long, painful transportation tie-up in the busiest season of the year.
The tie-up originated in the refusal of a small union of subway motormen—skilled and responsible workers—to be bullied into merging their identity with Mike Quill's CIO Transport Workers Union.
*
The politically created New York Transit Authority, two members of which are chosen by Mayor Wagner and Gov. Harriman and the third chosen by the first two, decreed that the union headed by Mike Quill be sole bargainer for all transport workers.
Thereupon the Transit Authority, suddenly and probably illegally, obtained an injunction against the striking motormen, and a judge threw the leaders of their union into jail for contempt.
Then the Transit Authority and the Mayor under deep political obligations to Quill, began systematically to crush the strike.
With harried Christmas shoppers, city workers and commuters screaming for relief, there was loud talk about an "illegal strike," the usual "no-talk-until-you-go-back-to-work," etc.
All this about the defiance of an injunction against a union in a city in which Fiorella La Guardia, co-author of an anti-injunction law, had been Mayor and hero for 12 years.
It is not to the credit of the Mayor and New York newspapers that they joined in this hue and cry against the motormen.
It was evident, however, that Quill's union members themselves, as well as a substantial number of thoughtful people, saw the thing as it was—the struggle of a minority for justice against a political alliance between Tammany and Mike Quill's CIO.
My first knowledge of this underlying resentment came a week ago at a meeting of a Republican district club in the heart of Manhattan.
There were present several members of the Quill union who spoke their heartfelt hatred of the Quill tyranny.
A day or two later, in another section of Manhattan, a Republican State Senator, Macneil Mitchell, proposed legislation for the coming session of the Republican-controlled Legislature.
This would give all unions, large and small, the right to appeal to the State Labor Relations Board over the decisions of the Transit Authority.
Republican leaders of the State Senate and House quickly pledged passage of the bill.
*
This would put Gov. Harriman on the spot.
To veto such a bill would be to confess his obligation to Quill.
To sign it would enrage Quill.
Meanwhile, a poll of all transport workers indicates that a two-thirds majority refused to vote in the TWU election.
This is a measure of the unpopularity of Quill among his own members.
This successful Republican coup should be a warning to Labor Secretary Mitchell and other people in the Washington administration who seem to be willing to appease union monopolies.
It should also give more courage to people elsewhere, like Sen. Knowland in California, who are willing to put the right to work on the line next year.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.