EMOTIONAL
SPEECH
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In the President's address before the National
Education Association he mentioned Lincoln no less
than 20 times. Tucked in the midst of these references was his plea for Federal aid for school construction. The references to Lincoln and to education generally can be conceded. Lincoln was a good man, and education is a good thing.
Another item in the speech was that schools are essential to national defense and "more important than Nike batteries, more necessary than radar warning nets, and more powerful even than the energy of the atom." From which listeners were left to draw the conclusion that unless we have Federal aid for school construction we shall be left naked before the fury of the Soviet.
★
These two approaches belong to what is called psychological warfare, and since the President has at his command a great army of psychological warriors, some of them probably had a hand in preparing the speech.
The Lincoln references were intended, in the language of psychological warfare, to identify the speaker and his policies with a sacred symbol.
The reference to national defense was, in the language of the so-called psychological experts, an incitement to fear.
All of which belongs in that mystic land of seeming-not-being. It is a shame to break into these emotional areas with hard fact, but the condition of our national finances makes it necessary.
★
The President invites the following thought by his reference to defense: If new schools are more important than national defense, then let us cut a billion or two from the foreign aid and defense budget over the next four years. Such a paltry $300,000,000 to $600,000,000 per year would hardly be missed. Then reduce taxes so that the people in the States and local districts can build their own schools.
So far as what the President called an "emergency" situation exists, let us raise a point with Secretary Folsom, who was an applauding companion of the President in his appearance before the NEA.
On March 23, 1955, his predecessor, Mrs. Hobby, in a statement before the House Committee on Education and Labor, said that the deficit calculated by her department was 312,000 classrooms as of the year 1952-53. She admitted that in presenting that figure in February it had been indicated that the deficit would increase to 407,000 classrooms by 1959-60.
But, she continued, in a subsequent check of the figures it was found that the States and local districts were gaining rather than losing in the race with crowding and obsolescence. Hence, the March statement was that the deficit would in 1959-60 drop to "176,000 classrooms rather than 407,000 classrooms."
*
But Secretary Folsom said in 1956 that the deficit had already dropped to 159,000, or less than the deficit estimated by Secretary Hobby for 1959-60. Therefore, since approximately one-half of the 1952-53 deficit of 312,000 has been wiped out in three years, why not admit that the deficit will disappear by 1959-60?
All these figures are from Secretary Folsom's department. Does he, therefore, approve of the President's declaration of an "emergency"?
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.