RAYMOND MOLEY:
A New Attack Under
Civil Rights Guise
While devoting abundant and highly prejudiced coverage to troubles the South is having with school integration, most New York City newspapers are studiously avoiding consideration of a bill proposed last May for passage by the City Council. They see the mote in their brother's eye, but ignore the beam of their own.
Indeed, consequences of passage of a bill by Councilmen Sharkey, Brown and Isaacs could be more explosive in the North than is public school integration in the South. In effect, it provides that owners of apartment buildings in the city be subject to government regulation as to which tenants they may have.
★
The reasoning in the bill is curious. After deploring segregation in housing because it "necessarily results in other forms of segregation in public schools and other public facilities, which is condemned by the Constitutions of our State and nation," it proposes that the government and the courts enforce integration in private buildings "in order to guard against these evils."
The constitutional implication is clear. Government would make a great leap into the regulation of private property, the first of its kind in our history. Government has already gone pretty far in recent years in property control. Rent control, enacted as a war emergency, is still in force in New York after 12 years. But nothing approaching the Sharkey-Brown-Isaacs bill has ever been the law governing private property.
★
When the bill was first introduced in May, Mayor Robert Wagner sent a public message to the Council that such legislation was necessary. Opposition was strong and immediate. Tenants strenuously objected. Councilmen who were to act on the measure were barraged with protests and it was sidetracked.
Up for re-election this fall, they shudder at the prospect of committing themselves one way or the other. Back in their districts it is clear that they had best put the issue aside until later. Owners of real estate cried out, knowing that enforcement of such unprecedented government invasion of property rights would disastrously affect property values.
★
Two developments came of this. Apparently Democratic chieftains wondered how the Mayor could get off the long limb on which he had so blithely perched himself. He has said practically nothing since on the subject and the bill has been amended, exempting co-operative apartments.
Real estate people recognize how inflammatory the measure could be if widely enforced. They also feel strongly that more than one-half of the city's real estate value of something between 21 billion dollars and 22 billion dollars would be immediately jeopardized.
Should the bill become law, apartment buildings by the thousands would go co-operative. Residential real estate in the city would unquestionably tumble. Many people would take to the suburbs. Then real estate tax receipts would drop.
★
This is a question quite different from the public school issue. Everyone pays taxes and is entitled to benefits from them. Not so with private property. Real estate men point out that the commercial interests—banks and mortgage companies—base their rates to an extent on occupancy, although they don't say so. A building in certain parts of the city can get only half what an identical structure in other locations can get for mortgage. "This isn't prejudice," says a banker, "it's sound business sense."
It should be noted that this bill makes exceptions of co-operatives and private homes or groups of less than 10 homes. In good conscience, how can such exceptions be made? It is clear that the New York City effort is only the first move by integrationists—the "trial run." If successful in New York, the scheme will be strenuously pushed in many other northern cities.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.