A QUESTION OF ETHICS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Msgr. George C. Higgins, whom a minority in the
director of the social action union does not wish to
department of the Na- elect?
tional Catholic Welfare Does he approve of the
Council, was selected by contribution made by the
the United Automobile UAW to the Hells Canyon
Workers as a member of Association out in the
its board of citizens to re- Northwest, an organization
view complaints concern- interested in promotion of
ing ethical practices in that a project far removed from
union. the bulk of the members
* of the union? Will he be
In an address last week willing to have the union
at the UAW convention reveal the amount of mon-
Msgr. Higgins alluded, ac- ey spent for so-called "ed-
cording to the Associated ucational" work in elec-
Press, to "published tions, and the specific pur-
charges that the review poses for which that mon-
board would serve as a ey was spent?
"rubber stamp" for Walter ★
Reuther's union." Then he No doubt, Msgr. Higgins
referred to me and was will have great influence
"loudly cheered" when he with Mr. Reuther, since in
said that if I think "that an article published Dec.
this group is a rubber 17, 1956, he warmly en-
stamp, he is just as crazy dorsed the Reuther de-
as a loon." mand upon President Ei-
It happens that I did not senhower, made two weeks
say anything about a "rub- before, that there be an
ber stamp." What I wrote investigation of the rela-
in this column was that it tionship of wages, profits
would be "a fair question and prices. The thinking
whether Reuther would be of Msgr. Higgins in his
willing to submit to such a article ran so closely par-
board the question for the allel with that of Mr. Reu-
promotion of political plans ther that there must be a
and candidates selected deep bond of sympathy be-
largely by Reuther him- tween them. This relation-
self." ship could be very useful
* in guiding the union's ac-
In another article, in tivities along ethical lines.
Newsweek magazine, I ex- Finally, I would like
pressed my opinion that very much to know wheth-
such a board would be "a er the action taken by the
private, hand-picked UAW to set up a separate
court," and also that it was citizenship fund for its
interesting to note that, political activities is not a
while Mr. Reuther in all of recognition that past prac-
his previous plans for the tices of using general funds
regulation of industry al- for "educational" purposes
ways wanted a representa- (really political in nature)
tive of government to be were not defensible in the
included, he wanted no in- light of the Federal law on
terference by government the subject.
with the affairs of his un-
ion.
If Msgr. Higgins wants to
interpret that as calling the
board a rubber stamp, I am
willing to waive the differ-
ence. But I would like
Msgr. Higgins to clear up a
number of doubts that are
naturally raised in connec-
tion with the board of
which he is a member. And
if he does so, I am willing
to be called "crazy as a
loon."
*
Since Msgr. Higgins pre-
sumes to speak for the
board of which he is a
member, I wish he would
express an opinion about
the ethics of using the gen-
eral funds of the union for
purposes called "educa-
tional," but which were
plainly designated by the
Supreme Court in its de-
cision of last month as
really political. Does he re-
gard any ethical question
to be involved in using the
money contributed as dues
to support candidates

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.