A JUDGE BESIDE HIMSELF
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In considering the cases recently decided by the Supreme Court, in which various methods of the control of Communism are dealt with, it may be well to begin by differentiating among the cases.
Most of the cases involved matters which clearly had to do with the proper function of the courts in their interpretation and application of the laws. This involves what is called the science of jurisprudence, which the standard dictionary defines as "the science by which the laws and the constitutions of states, written or unwritten, are reduced to system, and their principles analyzed, methodized, expounded and judicially applied."
This aspect of public policy was involved in the case of the conviction of the five California Communists under the Smith Act.
*
The Watkins case, however, involved another science, the science of politics, which is defined in the same dictionary as "that branch of civics that treats of the principles of civil government and the conduct of state affairs; the administration of public affairs in the interest of the peace, prosperity and safety of state; statecraft, political science: in a wide sense embracing the science of government and civil polity."
I venture to suggest that the Watkins case was a matter in which the court usurped jurisdiction and that Congress has every right under the Constitution to ignore it. The Supreme Court, in decreeing what the procedure of a Congressional committee should be, was outside its province and was crossing the boundary separating the branches of government.
For a very special reason I will quote from Mr. Justice Frankfurter's concurring opinion in the Watkins case:
"... The scope of inquiry that a committee is authorized to pursue must be defined with sufficiently unambiguous clarity to safeguard a witness from the hazards of vagueness in the enforcement of the criminal process against which the due process clause protects."
In other words, the court is assuming the right to dictate to Congress what its methods of inquiry should be.
Now since there is a more apt reply to this at hand than anything I might write, permit me to present a quotation therefrom:
"The proper scope and methods of procedure appropriate to Congressional investigations depend on the conception of the part they play in enabling Congress to discharge its basic duties."
The authority goes on to say that there is no legal protection due to unfettered speech... only moral and social pressure.
"For the same reason, Congressional inquiry ought not to be fettered by advance rigidities, because in the light of experience there can be no reasonable doubt that such curtailment would make effective investigation impossible... the procedure of Congressional investigation should remain what it is. No limitations should be imposed by Congressional legislation or standing rules.
★
"The power of investigation should be left untrammeled, and the methods and forms should be left for determination of Congress and its committees as each situation arises. The safeguards against abuse and folly are to be looked for in the forces of responsibility which are operating from within Congress, and are generated from within."
My authority, upon which I am willing to rest my case, is Prof. Felix Frankfurter, writing about the Walsh and Wheeler investigations in the early 1920s. The article, entitled "Hands Off the Investigations," was published in the New Republic May 21, 1924.
Prof. Frankfurter and Mr. Justice Frankfurter are the same person, looking in the one case at a labor union official who refused to identify certain alleged Communists and in the other at certain businessmen and public officials.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.