THE PRESIDENT'S HELPERS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In what cannot be interpreted other than as an assumption by Press Secretary Hagerty that the White House bureaucracy will carry on now as it did in 1955, the matter of delegating what the Constitution designates as "the powers and duties" of the Presidency seems to be settled for the time.
Hagerty has "not heard" the President discuss resignation with anyone. The President's attendance at church is a private matter. And "while we appreciate at times the newspapers running the government of the United States, it is the government of the United States and that decision is up to the President and the President alone."
The decision is not "up to the President and the President alone." It is vested by the Constitution in Congress.
*
Hagerty's later statement that "the President's general arterial condition gives no evidence and has never given any evidence of sclerosis, which means hardening of the arteries," is also contrary to fact. According to the best medical authority, this illness as well as the heart attack in 1955 are in themselves evidence.
The condition of the President, of the country, and of the world call either for resignation or for the total but temporary vesting of the Presidential powers and duties in the Vice-President.
*
I venture to offer some information, the details of which no other person now living knows. It has to do with what is so often called "lightening the burdens on the President."
When Franklin D. Roosevelt became President, guided by his faithful but erratic Louis Howe, he made some basic decisions about the White House staff. President Hoover had been equipped with a small staff of helpers which included three with the title of "secretary," one with the title of "administrative assistant," and a private secretary.
Howe, jealous of his power with his "Franklin," managed it so that he would be the top dog. Marvin MacIntyre and Stephen Early, who thought they were to be cosecretaries with Howe, discovered when they got their commissions that Howe had made them "assistant" secretaries. I was present when they first learned this from the cold type of the commissions. Unprintable characterizations of Howe made the White House air blue.
*
Howe also had decided that the able Marguerite Lehand should be relegated to the living quarters of the White House. But she frustrated Howe by taking physical possession of the small office next to the President's in the office building.
I was supposed to be the President's assistant and collaborator, which in fact I had been for a year and was to continue to be for six months more. But Louis discovered an Assistant Secretaryship of State without statutory duties, and there I was placed. Louis well knew that because of the intense feelings of Secretary Hull my seat in his department would be hot and temporary.
But the work got done, including the most comprehensive legislative program in so short a time, a disarmament conference and a general international economic conference. True, there was no war threat. But the depression, domestic and international, was, as Roosevelt said, a crisis akin to war. True also, Roosevelt was 51 years of age and, except for his legs, in perfect health. And he was a titan for work.
★
Perhaps this skeleton staff might be compared with what exists now. According to the most recent official directory, the President's chores are "delegated" to the following: One assistant to the President. One deputy assistant to the President with two assistants. Two secretaries and an associate secretary. One personal secretary. One special counsel with two assistants. Twelve special assistants to the President. One deputy special assistant to the President. One special consultant. One consultant. One administrative assistants. One staff secretary with four assistants. One secretary to the Cabinet with an assistant etc., etc.
What is needed is one additional person—a vice or acting President vested legally with the constitutional powers and duties of the Presidency, permanently or temporarily, at the direction of Congress.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.