That eminent philosopher from Indiana, Sen. William Jenner, when asked recently on a television program whether he wanted certain support in his next year's campaign for re-election replied that he certainly did and added that he wanted even the dogs to be barking for him. Another political seer from that politically sophisticated State, the late Will Hays, coined a phrase which should be immortal. "Politics," he said when there was a suggestion about "reading" someone out of the Republican Party, "is assimilation not elimination." It is a pity that this general idea cannot permeate the minds of some of the newer breed of Republicans. For their discourse generally consists of a recitation of what is wrong with their party and who ought to be purged. Here again I summon the shade of that most astute son of Indiana. "We hear too much about what is wrong with America," said Will Hays on another occasion. "Let's concentrate on what's right with America." Substitute the name of your favorite political party for America in that expression and you have the formula for success. When Paul Hoffman, the President's favorite marplot, contributed a long article to Collier's in the midst of last year's campaign on the subject of what was wrong and who was wrong with the Republican Party and named several Senators whom he would cast into the darkness, he certainly lost for the President—a Republican who would have supported the administration two-thirds of the time and gained for the Democratic Party a Senator who will probably be against the President two-thirds of the time. It was a favorite theme of Thomas E. Dewey back in the days when he was running for President that there were many things which were wrong with the Republican Party. But he failed to be explicit about names, except in quite generally quoted private conversations. The result was a tremendous stay-at-home vote in the elections when he ran—a nonvoting vote which cost him the Presidency. For an American party membership is not only purely a matter of voluntary choice but the habit of not voting is just about as virulent as the habit of voting. In fact, in 1948 the voters and nonvoters were almost 50-50. Another characteristic of American parties requires great variation in membership. This is the fact that there are very large parties, stretching from ocean to ocean, encompassing all sorts of regional characteristics and all sorts of social and economic divisions. To stay alive the party simply must tolerate immense differences in personalities and points of view. To hold a fairly even level of strength each party must make its appeal to all and must carefully avoid any suggestion of purging. When the late Franklin D. Roosevelt was about to make his speech of acceptance on one of his many occasions when acceptances were in order he had a sentence in his original draft inviting unhappy Republicans to join with him in his great crusade. He then followed with a sentence inviting all and sundry "reactionary" Democrats to scram. A worldwise politician who examined the speech before it was delivered strongly commended the invitation to Republicans but violently opposed the suggestion that any Democrats were expendable. The result was that the offending sentence was omitted. Great parties like universal religions must be tolerant of great deviations. The stigma of heresy must be sparingly applied. This is a truism which the abstention of half the normal Republican strength in the recent election in Wisconsin should reinforce. There is nothing in American politics so easy to do as to move people to stay home on election day.