RAYMOND MOLEY:
Eisenhower Influence
Wanes in Southwest
This is written after a ter, when he runs for re-
week's trip which includ- election next year, will be
ed stopovers in San Fran- more pronounced because
cisco, Los Angeles, Tucson he has opposed administra-
and El Paso. No reporter, tion policies than because
in conscience, after such he is a Republican.
necessarily brief and lim- He was one of the Re-
ited contacts with busi- publican Senators men-
ness and newspaper peo- tioned in Paul Hoffman's
ple as I had can presume ridiculous but mischie-
to interpret public opinion vous attempt to purge the
in the States I have vis- Republican Party last
ited. But a few important year. This attack by a
generalizations are in close associate of the
order. President has not been for-
On the day I spent in gotten, and ironically it
El Paso another commen- will save the Senator from
tator, Arthur Krock, was condemnation as an El-
in Central Texas and his senhower Republican. This
report agrees with mine. will be a definite advan-
He says in his dispatch to tage at the polls.
his newspaper that "the *
historic Texas distrust of The resignation of Atty.
any Republican has been Gen. Brownell lifts some
revived and the standing eyebrows and elicits many
of the Republican Party in sighs of relief. But a fair
the State has reverted al- estimate by some South-
most to that of the Grant ern Californians and neigh-
administration." bors of William P. Rogers,
★ who is to succeed to the
El Paso is a long way headship of the Justice De-
from Central Texas. It has partment, is that his poli-
relatively few Negroes and cies will not materially
integration is an accepted differ from those of
fact in the city. But the Brownell.
policy apparently framed Everywhere the most
by the Dewey-Brownell commonly asked question
group of White House ad- is whether, out of the
visers and accepted by the sharp divisions within
President in the Little both parties concerning
Rock matter was roundly Little Rock and other na-
denounced by the various tional issues, there will
people whom I saw in that emerge a third party. My
westernmost spot in the answer is that it is too
Lone Star State. early to determine that.
A budding Republican *
group existed here before The Southern States will
Little Rock and a young not relinquish their right
Republican made a fair to the name Democratic
showing in last year's Con- nor the power to be exer-
gressional race. But no one cised in Congress because
seems to believe that this of their chairmanships of
Republican opposition can so many committees.
retain any measurable part What is likely, however,
of its last year's support. unless present signs fail,
Apparently Republicanism is that the electoral votes
is as unpopular here at the of several States may be
western end of the great withheld from any candi-
southern crescent as it is date nominated by the
in Virginia, where a hope- "liberal" Democrats of the
less Republican is running North. Whether this will
for Governor. help a Republican candi-
I found the same oppo- date in 1960 depends upon
sition to the administra- the character of the Re-
tion's policies among both publican candidate. If he
Democrats and Republi- is to be a liberal Republi-
cans in Tucson. Arizona can we may expect one of
actually has an active Re- the biggest stay-at-home
publican Party. But I ven- votes in history.
ture to say that the
strength of Sen. Goldwa-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.