The moral issues involved in the custody of union funds include something more than protection of members from the free use of those funds for the personal comforts, peculations and speculations of union officers.
The more important issue is the use of those funds by the union leaders to build or take over or support a political party or candidate with whom some members are not in sympathy.
This problem has not been opened up by the McClellan committee, and there are those who doubt it ever will be.
There are Senators who are beneficiaries of this use of union funds, and their influence is very great.
The issue, however, is very much alive.
In current negotiations between the Santa Fe Railway Co. and 15 co-operating railway unions the subject has been raised in a very interesting manner.
In the famous Hanson case, decided in May, 1956, the Supreme Court declared that nonunion employees were not protected by the Nebraska right-to-work law from complying with a union-shop contract.
The unions declared that the Railway Labor Act—in which Congress in 1951 wrote a provision permitting the making of an agreement for compulsory membership—prevailed despite the Nebraska law.
However, it should be noted that in rendering the Hanson decision the court explicitly said that Congress had in the 1951 legislation specifically said that "no conditions of membership may be imposed except as respects 'periodic dues, initiation fees and assessments.'"
If other conditions are in fact imposed, or if the exaction of dues, initiation fees or assessments is used as a cover for forcing ideological conformity or other action in contravention of the First Amendment, this judgment will not prejudice the decision in that case.
In short, the court followed the law of Congress in that membership should imply only the payment of dues, etc., and did not compel the member to comply with or support any ideological or political position or action.
This position was supported by the Supreme Court of Texas in another case, decided after the Hanson case last year.
In a more recent case in Georgia, decided in June of this year (Looper V. Georgia Southern and Florida Railway), the Supreme Court of that State said that no one can constitutionally be compelled to contribute money to support "ideas, politics and candidates which he opposes."
These decisions, together with the decision of the Supreme Court in the United Automobile Workers case in March of this year, make it clear that the subterfuge of calling political activities "educational" is not sanctioned by the law or permitted by the law.
In these present negotiations the Santa Fe Railway has hit upon a device which would make a union shop agreement possible, provided that the fees, dues and assessments collected shall cover only the costs of collective bargaining.
The company went on to say that, while it disagreed in principle with the whole idea of compulsory membership, it would go so far as to agree to a contract under certain terms.
In a letter to the committee of the unions it said:
"No employee should be discharged for failure to pay for expenses attendant upon political, ideological, fraternal, social or insurance activities in which the organization may engage.
It is clearly wrong to discharge people who do not wish to pay for political or ideological campaigns with which they are not in sympathy."
It would seem that this proposal breaks new ground in the battle to protect the political rights of union members and to protect the nation against the building up of a vast political machine, the muscle of which is contributed by captive treasuries and captive union officers and shop stewards to be used in political action at the command of the union heads.