It is quite clear that conscientious members of Congress are urgently seeking a formula by which the traditional control of the legislative branch of government may be protected against executive power and at the same time to avoid any suggestion that the United States is not ready to resist further aggression by the Soviet or any nation controlled by the Soviet. It is also clear that such members of Congress as well as the administration are determined at all costs to avoid weakening the United Nations.

At the moment, however, no way appears to solve these difficulties. The language of the resolution before Congress is not at all clear on either of these points. Nor was Secretary Dulles able in his statement to the House Foreign Affairs Committee to clarify the foggy language of the proposed resolution.

The resolution says that any employment of armed force to secure and protect the territorial integrity and political independence of any such nation or group of nations requesting such aid "shall be consonant with the treaty obligations of the United States and with the Charter of the United Nations and actions and recommendations of the United Nations." In his statement, Secretary Dulles underscored these words by saying:

"Co-ordination with the United Nations would be further assured by a provision that any United States use of force shall be consonant with the actions and recommendations of the United Nations."

Secretary Dulles is a lawyer—an eminent lawyer—who has been employed for many years in a world-wide practice. But he fails to make it clear whether by this limitation he and the President are asking anything more in the nature of authority than what they already have. Does this mean that the President will not act unless the United Nations has authorized action? If so, what division of the United Nations is referred to here?

If this means that the Assembly (for it is certain that the Security Council in such a situation would be rendered powerless by a Russian veto) must authorize action, the handicap thus imposed on any prompt military action is almost insuperable. For the Assembly is not always in session and to get it together for such a purpose would take a considerable time.

Indeed, to impose this restriction would be more serious than a promise to get authority from Congress before acting. For these are not horse-and-buggy days. Congress is in session generally from January to August. When it is not in session it can be called together in a matter of a few days. And it can be taken for granted that it would agree to any request made by the President with little or no debate.

The problem so far as Congress is concerned might well be resolved by a resolution specifically referring to the problem posed by the President and making it a matter of national policy that the United States would regard such aggression in a specified area as inimical to our national interests. This would leave it to the President to call such a threat to the attention of Congress and secure authority in a specific case. In any event, this would preserve the principle that Congress still retains its constitutional right to authorize the use of force—which, of course, in practice means war.

Another alternative which would save the constitutional face of Congress would be to join the Baghdad pact and to secure adherence to that pact of such other Middle Eastern nations as are not now members. This would bind us to act in case of aggression under the terms of a treaty constitutionally adopted.