AUTO TAX
DEALS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Two months ago I commented in this column upon a proposal by Sen. Douglas to cut the excise tax on automobiles if the manufacturers would agree to pass on the cut in a reduction in prices. I made the vital point that any such deal between Congress and any group of private citizens was inimical to the public interest. The purpose of taxes is to raise public revenue. They should apply equitably. To single out one industry for favorable treatment is bad. But to give the cut in a trade with the heads of automobile companies is worse. Even if justified, such an arrangement with an industry which is highly concentrated would be unfair to other industries not so concentrated. In my piece, I unfortunately singled out George Romney as having been agreeable to such an arrangement.
★
It was true that in connection with an earlier proposal, by Sen. Charles E. Potter of Michigan, Mr. Romney and the heads of General Motors, Chrysler and Ford had indicated to the Senator that they would, in case of a reduction, pass along the cut to their dealers and would urge the dealers to do the same with customers. But this statement of the company presidents was made in response to a mere inquiry for information. The Douglas proposal was a quid pro quo affair. When that proposal was made, Mr. Romney, in a letter to Sen. Kefauver, hit on the vital question of the principle involved. It was a very sound statement indeed. He said that the reduction of automobile excise taxes should be dealt with on its merits and not be made contingent upon automobile companies cutting prices. It may be added that Mr. Romney pointed out, quite properly, that the high price of automobiles was to only a small degree due to the excise tax. The real factor was the wage increases and fringe benefits exacted by the monopolistic UAW.
★
This specific subject is now disposed of for another year because the excise tax was not eliminated or reduced by Congress. But the incident illustrates the extent to which the head of the UAW and some of his friends among "liberal" Senators would push the automobile industry into agreements which might well produce a planned economy in a single industry and open the way to its extension generally. It is freely admitted by Walter Reuther that when he first exacted a pension plan from Ford his real objective was to force government to increase its own Social Security benefits. And when the supplementary unemployment benefit plan was demanded of the automobile companies, Reuther's obvious purpose was to get the companies on his side in a drive in the States to liberalize their unemployment benefits.
★
All such moves are a part of the Reutherian strategy to create a planned and regimented economy—in part through his maneuvers at the bargaining table and in part through the power of his union in electing Congressmen and Senators. The highly concentrated automobile industry and the huge UAW provide excellent beginnings for such a collectivist trend. It is this that the companies which must deal with Reuther must keep in mind. Their responsibility lies not just to their own company interests but to the economy and American institutions generally. When Charles E. Wilson said, in effect, that what was good for General Motors was good for the United States, and that what was good for the United States was good for General Motors, I heartily agreed. But the second part of that statement needs to be kept consistently in mind when dealing with a dedicated planner like Reuther.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.