RAYMOND MOLEY:
Rules Committee's
Brake on Spending
This visitation of Congress was bad enough news for the taxpayer, but some consolation can be gained from a contemplation of how much worse it might have been. And so when the woebegone payers of the bills for this great republic assemble in their respective houses of worship next Thanksgiving, they should offer a word for the Rules Committee of the House of Representatives. They are so few but they have saved so much. And the payment they get is the sneers and abuse of "liberals" in Congress and in the press.
*
The British House of Commons operates under the tight control of a Cabinet system. Without some such insurance against lunacy and confusion there would be only two alternatives over here—utter anarchy or a Speaker's dictatorship. The nation had the latter for a long time until one day in March, 1910, the "czar," Speaker Joseph Gurney Cannon, was ousted from his place on the Rules Committee and was denied the authority to appoint its members. The instigators of this rebellion were the creators of the "progressive movement." Cannon's rule was replaced by what we have now—a committee elected by the House.
In 1938 President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who had his own ideas of dictatorship, was enraged at the independence of John O'Connor, then chairman of the Rules Committee, and determined at any cost to purge him. This was accomplished when the President sent into the O'Connor district in Manhattan his most trusted executioner, Flynn of the Bronx.
*
Judge Howard Smith of Virginia, the present rules chairman, has associated with him a group of veterans who, like him, cherish the independent traditions of the House and in general adhere to the modern heresy that money doesn't grow on trees.
Bills emerging with the blessing of the various committees of the House go to the Smith committee to secure a "rule," which admits them to the floor and to a vote. Sponsors of the bills are required to show good reasons for their adoption, and the Rules Committee may or may not deem them worthy of attention by the House itself. The Rules Committee may be overruled only by a two-thirds vote of the House.
I haven't the entire record of the Rules Committee in the present session before me, but a few of the measures that the committee and Chairman Smith eliminated during the last days of this session were these:
The communities facilities bill, a huge pork barrel affair amounting to more than 2 billion dollars, which was given its rule and which Smith himself succeeded in beating on the floor.
★
A water pollution bill which, if passed, would have cost another billion in 10 years. The rules gentlemen believed that since not all pollution was confined to Washington the local communities should care for their own problems of that nature.
A food stamp bill amounting to another billion, and also an immense omnibus housing bill with a potential charge of $2,420,000,000.
There were some small but significant killings. Some House members wanted "administrative assistants" just like those of Senators. This proposal was tabled. There was an "omnibus" bill for new judgeships. Apparently after what Chairman Smith has seen of recent Supreme Court decisions, he believes that there are altogether too many judges now.
These billions do not include the many occasions in which the Rules Committee agreed to provide a rule only after a paring down of the sums by the committees of origin.
★
Since all these sums would have added to the national debt, there would have been printing of new money and your prices as a consumer as well as your bills as a taxpayer would have been upped. For all these blessings, please remember the Rules Committee on what should be rechristened "it-might-have-been-worse-day," celebrated this year on Nov. 27.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.