RAYMOND MOLEY:
Same Old Nostrums
Put Up in New Bottles
While Congress is rushing through a new stimulant for the Social Security system, with its "benefits" loudly proclaimed and its hike in taxes mentioned in undertones, it may be well to look at a few fundamentals in the light of history.
I have received from a reader of these articles, Ray D. Cuneo of Columbus, O., a translation of a most interesting comment upon the experience of other countries, published in 1923. The author was Charles Gide, a distinguished economist and honorary professor in the faculty of law at the University of Paris. The book, which Mr. Cuneo found in a secondhand bookshop, was a treatise on economics (Cours d'Economie Politique, 7th Edition, Volume II).
*
Gide was apparently thinking about the German system, which was tottering before World War I. But Britain was getting into the business and, of course, France had tried everything.
The German system was one aspect of Bismarck's version of our present "modern republicanism"—or, "if you can't lick 'em join 'em." The great German chancellor had found the Socialists gaining, and hence he took the whole working class under the imperial wing.
*
Gide's comments seem to be general, and some of the following aspects may not correspond to the German system. But they merit our attention because in most respects they correspond to our own system:
1—Workers were to make a contribution—in Germany, for 1200 weeks. Employers were required to make contributions also; at first in an equal amount. But there was provision, presumably for political reasons, for easing the obligatory assessment of the worker out of general taxation. This we surely will do in time—as surely as water will wet us.
2—Gide says: "It is the employer who is charged with the responsibility of making the deposits to the account of the worker he employs, by means of deductions from his wages." Here is our new-old friend in the American system, "tax deductions," devised to hide from the taxpayer the fact that he pays.
3—Gide says, further, that the system necessitates "a bureaucratic organization and an onerous and complicated bookkeeping." At the end of June, the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare employed 55,247, of whom 23,541 were in the Social Security Administration.
4—Gide says the enormous capital accumulation in the hands of the state might tempt a "questionable use." We are already using the money for current purposes as it comes in and are depositing in the so-called trust fund the IOUs of the Federal government in the shape of bonds to be paid by the general taxpayer.
5—Gide says that the system has a way of "discouraging" or of "rendering impossible" the accumulation of private savings.
6—He points out that the surplus at any given time is a temptation to the government to use funds for some welfare activity other than pensions. This is answered, so far as our system is concerned, under my fourth point above.
★
7—Gide points out that "insurance" is a misnomer. The thing has none of the elements of insurance. There is no "risk." Growing old is inevitable—"a sure thing." Gabble about an "actuarial basis" is absurd because there is no way to predict the number of beneficiaries or the amount of coverage, which is determined by the dictates of politics. Only by a miracle will the worker get his value back.
8—Finally, the great good sense of Gide suggested what many of us have been urging over here: That we recognize the duty of all of us to meet the real needs of some of us, but to "pay as we go," or, as a friend of mine says, "pay as we owe." Gide would require that the funds necessary to service the pensions be proportioned to the rate at which they fall due. He calls that the system of "repartition," as contrasted with "capitalization." Maybe, sometime, there will be a Congress that will junk the whole phony system with all its fallacious pretensions, honestly pay back to the people who have contributed what they own in the fund, and then pay for the needy aged pensions or assistance out of general funds appropriated every year.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.