Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt and
Right-to-Work Laws
Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt has been most articulate this year in attacking the right-to-work proposals now before five States for decision by the voters. That is, of course, her privilege as an American citizen.
It also was her privilege, during her service with the United Nations, to take an entirely opposite stand on the same subject when it was discussed as a right to be protected in all nations. She might, however, explain why something which was sauce for the international goose should be something other than sauce for an American State.
During the years 1947 and 1948 the Human Rights Commission of the United Nations was in the process of formulating a so-called "universal declaration of human rights." Mrs. Roosevelt was the representative of the United States on that commission.
At the third session of the United Nations General Assembly, held in Paris in 1948, the draft of the "universal declaration of human rights" came before it for discussion. It was referred to the social committee of the Assembly, and there were 85 meetings at which the declaration was combed over, word by word. Again, Mrs. Roosevelt was the United States representative present to defend and explain the document.
Finally, the document was approved by the social committee and later by the plenary session of the Assembly. There was no dissenting vote. In a sense this declaration is a major achievement of this busy woman's life. It happens that it has never had official recognition by the United States and is largely forgotten. But it should stand as a monument to the ideas and notions of the former First Lady.
Among many, many things the declaration says: "Article 23. Section 3. Everyone is free to form or join trade unions for the protection of his own interests."
During the debate there was discussion of four words which had been enclosed in parentheses: "of his own choice." After discussion, these were omitted.
The omission was agreed to because Mrs. Roosevelt assured those present that the statement as it stood meant freedom of choice.
A Mr. Fontana of Uruguay stated that the right to join trade unions should be accompanied by words to the effect that the worker should have also the right not to join. In reply, Mrs. Roosevelt said: "It was understood that the words 'everyone is free to form or join trade unions' left individuals free not to join."
In further discussion this was recorded:
"As regards Article 23, which concerned the right to work, in the opinion of Mrs. Roosevelt's delegation, the right was meaningless unless it was coupled with the mention of 'just and favorable working conditions,' which would guarantee the worker and his family a decent standard of living. The right to work had to be accompanied by the freedom of choice with respect to work."
These quotations are from official United Nations records.
Apparently Mrs. Roosevelt has quite different standards for Indonesians and Arabs than she has for her fellow countrymen. Or is she just another rather transparent political figure playing by ear? Or is her memory faulty? Has she ever thought through the problem she is trying to solve?