RAYMOND MOLEY:
President's Chance
to Ease Inflation
When the President at movements from one level
his press conference de- to another tend to be per-
livered a mild lecture to manent. They wither the
labor and management value of savings and bring
about further wage and immeasurable suffering to
price increases, he invited people who are unable
a reply about seeing the to help themselves. But no
mote in the other fellow's end of preaching, even
eye and ignoring the beam from such an eminent pul-
in his own.
pit as the White House,
It is true that he mildly will avail much.
added government to the But a President, when
factors responsible for in- Congress fails to do its
flation. He also used the duty, can put a mighty
word "horrible" to describe hand on the presses that
the Federal deficit antici- are right now printing
pated in the current year new money. He can take a
and asserted that it must stand against a spending
not happen again. He also spree the like of which has
placed himself on sound not been seen in peace-
ground when he pointed time.
★
out that the wage earner Those who heedlessly
is the real victim of infla- say that most of the deficit
tion, considering his pen- is for defense are talking
sion prospects, both from without the facts. In this
industry and government present session of Con-
Social Security. But it is gress the President's budg-
going to take more than et requests for defense
lectures to curb what is al- have been increased by
ready upon us. It will take $700,000,000. But spending
action, and the President for strictly civilian pur-
is mainly responsible for poses likely will be several
the action necessary in the times that amount. The
period immediately ahead. public assistance program,
★
school aid, housing, agri-
As many economists culture, Federal pay and
have pointed out, we are many other items will run
witnessing the unusual into several billions.
spectacle of rising infla- The inflationary influ-
tion in the face of an eco- ence of nondefense spend-
nomic decline. Unemploy- ing can be measured by
ment has been at a high comparing such expendi-
rate over a year in which tures in the present year
the dollar has lost 3% of with those in 1954. The
its purchasing power. rise has been 10 billion
Economists, notably dollars. Indeterminate au-
Henry Hazlitt, point out thorizations are given to
that the big rise in the Federal agencies to borrow
past year in "time" depos- from the Treasury without
its, as distinguished from going back to Congress for
currency outside the banks annual appropriations.
and demand deposits in- ★
side the banks (both of The President can put
which have remained con- a heavy brake upon the
stant), is a true mark of in- printing presses in two
flationary purchasing pow- ways. He can exercise a
er, not of savings as is veto on some of the bills,
sometimes supposed. Haz- and he can always exer-
litt points out further that cise a 365-day veto by re-
this situation is an exact fusing to spend some of
parallel with the condition the money already appro-
that prevailed in the great priated. It is sheer irre-
boom-before-the-bust in sponsibility for Congress
1928.
to go on spending to end a
As for inflation being recession which natural
caused by wage-price spi- causes are trying their best
rals, the case can be con- to terminate.
ceded. In the long run such Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.