RAYMOND MOLEY:
Oil Imports Bring
Texas Finance Crisis
HOUSTON, Tex.—Texas
is renowned for its wealth
and its unusually fine and
ample State services in education, highways, its welfare and correctional institutions and its high personal standards of living.
These blessings to a considerable degree flow from its great resources in oil, cotton, timber and its shipping.
One of these industries, cotton, has been in distress for some time due to increased cotton production abroad.
Now a greater threat comes from foreign oil and its invasion of the American market which has been a heavy taker of Texas oil and gas.
A very considerable part—22%—of its revenue for State services has come from taxes on its rich oil production.
But now, with its market for that oil constricted by foreign oil more cheaply produced, oil production has been seriously pinched.
★
Its oil stocks have mounted rapidly.
Under State authority oil production has been cut back severely.
For March the daily cutback is over 500,000 barrels and the allowable days of production have been limited to nine.
This compares with 18 days in March, 1957.
But still oil stocks are a heavy surplus weighing on the market.
This is estimated to be, on April 1, 112,000,000 barrels over normal.
Much of the trouble originated during the Suez troubles in 1956 when, in the face of a threatened stoppage of oil supplies from the Middle East, American oil production was allowed to mount.
Because of a pinch now in the Texas oil production industry, State revenues have fallen badly.
The annual report of the State Comptroller shows that for the biennium beginning next September there will be a State government deficit of $100,000,000.
This would mean that unless there is relief from the glut of oil imports into the United States the State will need to find tax sources which hitherto have never been dreamed of.
Texas has been free from burdensome State income and sales taxes.
But these are the unhappy alternatives.
The State has maintained fine public schools because of State grants of over $250,000,000, one-third of which came from oil revenues.
Its fine State-supported colleges and technical institutions have shared this wealth.
★
For some time there has been considerable controversy between the big oil companies, which deal not only in American-produced oil but also in imports, and the "independents" who live only on American oil resources.
Oil journals have been full of this discussion for nearly two years.
The big importers have contended that despite their supplies of cheaper foreign oil they are eager to keep the American producing industry alive and prosperous.
The independents have charged a threatened monopoly.
Whatever the merits of this argument, Texas, the symbol of wealth and State sufficiency, is in trouble.
Its leaders hate the idea of Federal financial aid but they claim the right of Federal protection against excessive oil imports.
Much will be heard in the present session of Congress about this issue.