REUTHER'S PROMISED LAND
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Among Walter Reuther's assorted talents is
the capacity to propose absurd economic theories to
which he attributes solutions to complicated problems of our society.
A few days ago the United Auto Workers' political economist—accent
on political—came out with one of his more fantastic schemes. Boldly he
proposed a two-level collective bargaining program calling for a profit-
sharing plan which would take in consumers and employees as well as the auto-
mobile companies and a wage increase in the industry mounting to at
least 10 cents an hour.
This package, he claims, would not be inflationary and would pump purchasing
power into the economy. Here, he would have it appear, is an answer to
our "ailing economy," here is something for everybody.
*
The fact that Mr. Reuther's demands smack of genuine Socialism is too
clear to require elaboration. Facts which should be set straight involve the
trickiness of Reuther's economic thinking and his apparent desire to take
over the functions of running the entire automobile industry through control of profits, compensation and prices, as well as
to control the government through determination of just what profits in the
industry may be taxed by Congress.
Mr. Reuther proposes that profits before taxes up to 10% on investment
be handled as they are now. He is saying 10% before taxes is a fair return.
Yet Federal corporate income tax is 52%, which leaves for the industry
and its stockholders a
CIO
Walter P. Reuther
4.8% profit, certainly not enough either to provide incentive to assume the
risks in such a competitive field or to assure necessary reserves for emergencies the future may
hold.
Profits over 10% would be divided—half to the industry and its stockholders,
one-fourth to workers and one-fourth to purchasers of automobiles in the form
of a rebate at the end of the year.
Since the 1,300,000 members of Mr. Reuther's union pay far lower taxes
compared to the high corporate income tax, revenue loss to the Federal government
would be substantial. The rebates would represent a total loss. Together,
these items would cost the government close to $300,000,000 in taxes from General Motors alone, taking
1956 figures as a yardstick.
★
Should Reuther's scheme be applied to all industry, tax loss would
mount into the billions. In his letter to local unions Mr. Reuther mentioned
the demands on our economy imposed by our position in the world. But how
could this tax loss be made up? Here Mr. Reuther's economic daydream disintegrates. His increased
purchasing power would be nullified by higher taxes on personal incomes.
And perhaps corporate taxes would go up, undercutting even further the
possibility for reserves for plant expansion and future exigencies.
Again, Mr. Reuther has revealed himself as a remarkably ambitious man,
for he would take it upon himself to control a mighty industry and through manipulations remove from the field of corporate taxation an enormous amount of money.
This plan is further proof of what John L. Lewis recently said, "Well,
Reuther is an earnest Marxist."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.