RAYMOND MOLEY:
EPIC Finds Echo in
Redevelopment Bill
The Douglas area redevelopment bill has passed
the Senate and is now
pending in the House.
Were its implications not
so serious, it could easily
pass as an act of comedy.
Never, since the once famous but now almost forgotten EPIC movement
promoted by Upton Sinclair in California in 1934,
has anything so absurd seriously approached reality.
Indeed, it has the same basic elements as the older "production for use, not
profit" crazes. For it would, through a Federal
bureaucracy, enter an area, either industrial or
rural, which is not doing well economically and
open up abandoned or unused factories, bring in
new machinery, and presumably put people to
work making whatever they could make-all with
Federal money. I see no reason why the same thing
could not happen, under the terms of the bill, with
abandoned farms. Moreover, the plan would be to
seize upon the idle, rusty individuals in the area and
put them into vocational schools. Then, when everybody was working at
producing what was not needed, "prevailing wage
rates" would be paid for a 40-hour week.
*
It should be noted first that this adventure in Socialism (for it is not unlike
the Socialist colonies of the Fourier type which
flourished and failed back in the 1840s) is to be bestowed, according to the
bill, only on places where there has been long-term
and "persistent" distress. Thus, it cannot be merely
a scheme to help a community which is suddenly in
trouble because of this recession. It would aim to
bring to life cases of chronic community deterioration. So it would not
be a temporary affair but would continue on and on,
for chronic illness needs protracted treatment.
Forty-six Senators voted for this, in many cases
not so much to rehabilitate decayed industry and
farms but to rebuild broken-down political fences.
For nothing but a pork barrel would have rallied
some of the cosponsors who helped Douglas put
the show on the road.
To their everlasting credit, minority Senators
on the Banking and Currency Committee scored
the bill with blistering and incontrovertible facts.
They were Sens. Fulbright, Robertson, Frear,
Capehart, Bricker, Bennett and Bush.
★
These Senators pointed out in their minority report the fraudulent nature
of the claim that the plan would appreciably help
unemployment. At the time it passed the committee the bill would have
affected only one in eight of the unemployed. It
would also, according to the minority, discriminate
in favor of only a limited number of communities
and put them into competition with other communities which for normal
reasons had taken business away from the distressed ones.
Moreover, it completely ignores the existence of
at least two agencies already in existence, designed to help such distress-one in the Department
of Commerce, the other in the Department
of Agriculture. Both agencies were helped by new
money voted in April, 1958.
The Douglas bill would also, under a new and fancy name, "retraining subsistence payments," provide supplementary unemployment compensation,
which already has been provided by a bill passed
recently and signed by the President.
The minority sums up with this:
★
"Instead of attempting to find a real solution to
the problems of chronic unemployment, the sponsors of this bill have followed the easy but not always wise policy of finding
a new channel in which to pour Federal funds."
Congress is still in session, and therefore we little know what economic
and political sins will be committed in the name of
stopping the recession. But this bill may well indicate
what may be invented under that guise.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.