Coya Knutson, who represents the 9th Minnesota District in the U.S. House of Representatives, recently attained national note because of a quite human circumstance that might elicit sympathy from many husbands. Mr. Knutson, back home, has been reported in the public prints from coast to coast as being of the opinion that Mrs. Knutson should come home and tend to housekeeping and leave statesmanship to others. I have neither reason nor inclination to precipitate myself into this purely domestic matter. But the publicity Mrs. Knutson has received makes somewhat pertinent a scheme which she has proposed to the special education subcommittee—a plan for a student aid which goes far beyond anything so far advanced by the most hardy of Congressional liberals.
This is Mrs. Knutson's explanation of her idea of a 10-billion-dollar revolving student loan fund: "There is a new principle of economics in this proposal as revolutionary as installment buying. Twenty years ago a person was scorned in his community for buying on time payments instead of by cash. But borrowing against one's future productivity for an education is unquestionably here already as indicated by public opinion on student loans.
"The loan fund idea has been successful in Scandinavian countries. "My bill has the advantage of prior experience in Norway—the first country to use this principle. The Norwegian government loan fund for undergraduates was instituted in 1947 and adopted by Denmark and Sweden a few years ago, around 1954, I believe. The Norwegian plan has been most successful. It is so simple a plan that it can hardly go wrong—and the most important thing is that it is not a give-away plan, it is a loan fund.
"Norway gives long-term, low-interest loans to students at universities, colleges, technical institutions and schools of higher learning throughout Norway and for study abroad. These loans are given without security and bear no interest during the study period." The idea is an importation from the Scandinavian but the money figures would fit no economy but ours. Any hard-pressed taxpayer who examines this 10-billion-dollar bit of "new" economics will, I am sure, rally with enthusiasm to another Knutson plan. That is Mr. Knutson's plan that Coya return to Minnesota and bury herself in her housework. She could learn more economics there than among the liberals in Congress.