Early this spring in Fairfax County, Va., several members of a notorious narcotics ring were caught and prosecuted for violation of the Virginia narcotics law. However, a defense is already set up to the effect that the Federal government has pre-empted the field and the Virginia law is void. This is based upon the belief that the Supreme Court, riding high these days on all State laws, will uphold that defense.
In 1956, in the Nelson case, the Supreme Court declared in effect that American States might not protect themselves by law against Communism. Before that, in 1954, the Supreme Court declared that States might not regulate the production and distribution of natural gas produced within their borders.
Blow by blow, the Supreme Court has arrogated to itself the power to make Federal authority supreme over what were in the Constitution the sovereign and imprescriptible laws of the States.
The Jenner bill, later revised as the Butler-Jenner bill, attempted to remedy this and to preserve at once the authority of Congress and the States against this sort of judicial tyranny. But that bill may well founder in the final weeks of the session.
Hence, there is interest now in a bill long before the House, written and sponsored by that stanch upholder of constitutional traditions, Rep. Howard Smith of Virginia, chairman of the potent Rules Committee. It has been passed by the House Judiciary Committee, despite the opposition of its "liberal" chairman, Emanuel Celler. It has also cleared the Rules Committee. Action may be seen within the week.
The Smith bill reads as follows:
"No act of Congress shall be construed as indicating an intent on the part of Congress to occupy the field in which such act operates, to the exclusion of all State laws on the same subject matter, unless such act contains an express provision to that effect, or unless there is a direct and positive conflict between such act and a State law so that the two cannot be reconciled or consistently stand together."
The bill's opponents include the believers in centralized big government. The AFL-CIO, the ADA, and the NAACP have testified strongly against it. Among the organizations that have supported it are the National Association of Manufacturers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the American Farm Bureau, the Conference of Small Business Organizations, the Conference of State Labor Commissioners and State Labor Boards, the 48th annual Governors' Conference, the National Association of States Attorneys General, and the American Bar Association.
The American Bar Association, which objected to some of the provisions of the Butler-Jenner bill, would go even beyond the Smith bill in protecting the States. It recommends a change in the rules of each house of Congress to require "that a committee reporting a bill to Congress report specifically on whether there are State laws dealing with the subject of the bill and the extent, if any, to which the bill is intended to affect those laws, and also whether it is intended that the bill shall preclude the future enactment of State legislation in the field."
Unless the States are to be mere provinces of the Federal government, the Smith bill should be written on the books with as many more safeguards as are possible to curb this Supreme Court.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.