Amendment Limiting Presidential
Terms to Two Has Sound Bases
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
I can see no reason, except making
publicity, why former President Tru-
man and others are talking about re-
pealing the 22nd Amendment to the
Constitution, which limits a President to
two terms.
Perhaps such a discussion is wholly
political and academic. But since memo-
ries are short, it may well be useful to
review some of the reasons entertained
by responsible people who, through the
ponderous process of amendment, were
able to get the limitation through Con-
gress and the states.
Background for Limit
The reasons for such a limitation are
historical, psychological, and physical:
The Roman Republic, whose laws and
traditions were admired for many cen-
turies after the Caesars destroyed it,
was zealous about preventing a chief of
state from retaining his power too long.
It was provided that whenever a head of
state should, because of war or other
peril, become a dictator, his power
should be limited strictly to the emer-
gency.
This fear of continued power no doubt
was based upon the same consideration
of the dangers of personal power held
by the founders of the American Repub-
lic. It is true, as was argued in 1940
and 1941, that Washington did not give
this danger as his reason for establish-
ing the two-term tradition. But the fact
is that he did retire after eight years,
just as he relinquished his military pow-
er at the conclusion of revolutionary
hostilities earlier.
Jefferson Specific
Jefferson was more specific. He de-
plored the failure of the Constitution to
prohibit a third term and argued co-
gently for the limitation by custom and
tradition. Jackson was equally positive,
recommending in six of his eight mes-
sages a constitutional amendment limit-
ing a President to one term of four or
six years.
Such opinions of men acquainted with
the ways of power with human beings
were based on what we now call psycho-
logical considerations. Power is a heady
narcotic. The more power vested in a
man, the more his mind will be closed
to the healthy atmosphere of reality.
He sees few who are either not subject
to his will or who do not want to gain
something by flattery.
Gradually, he identifies his wishes
with the will of the people. Finally, he
believes that whatever he says is true.
Because of this human frailty the prin-
ciple of a government of laws, not men,
was established and constitutions were
made. Napoleon and Hitler, ignoring the
fact of weather and the advice of their
intimates, destroyed themselves in Rus-
sia. The mania is a failure of judgment
not unlike insanity.
Increasingly, the Presidents of the
United States have gathered more pow-
er to themselves. They have more to
spend, more to command and supervise,
more honors to bestow, more flunkies
and more flatterers. Government
burgeons beyond any dreams of the
past.
Pressures Increase
This means more pressure upon them.
More drain on their physical being.
Surely, the experience of Presidents
Roosevelt and Eisenhower, with the
limitations of their physical resources,
should teach this lesson to all of us.
The increasing physical drain on Presi-
dents as the generations pass is revealed
in some figures.
The Presidents before Lincoln lived
an average of 75 years. They survived
the Presidency an average of 12 years.
Since Lincoln, the average age at death
has dropped to 62. The years remain-
ing after leaving office is now six. Mean-
while, as actuarial tables tell us, the
average for us all is years greater.
But behind the reality of a crumbling
physique lies always a delusion that
Presidents are indispensable. The real-
ity is that the job is indispensable to
their own satisfactions and wishes. Ike
Hoover, long a White House usher, said
in his memoirs that he never saw a
President leave the White House except
with reluctance.
Indispensability is what anyone may
call it. Surely the man himself should
not be the judge. That should be em-
bodied in law. The 22nd Amendment is
that law.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.