Election Contributions by Unions
Indicate Democratic Party Control
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
in the reports of expenditures are inclusive
penditures by all political only of what was directly
groups to the clerk of the spent in support of candi-
House of Representatives dates for federal offices—
there is clear evidence of i.e., members of Congress.
the growing, perhaps dom- They do not include
inant, influence of the la- what was spent in many
bor organizations in the states for State Legisla-
Democratic Party in a tures. They do not include
congressional election. expenditures to defeat
The Congressional Quar- right-to-work proposals in
terly well illustrates this half a dozen states. These
in a graph showing that were state issues.
labor groups in 1958 spent Nor do they cover the
$1.8 million, while Demo- vast mobilization of man-
cratic groups spent $1.7 power and womanpower
million. At the same time in political work, perhaps
and for the same election, the most decisive force in
official Republican groups the election. Finally, ex-
spent $4.6 million, while penditures made directly
the Republican auxil- for candidates for federal
iaries spent an inconse- offices cover only what the
quential fraction of that donors are pleased to term
amount. "political." They have
* nothing to do with the im-
The figures themselves mense sums spent for "ed-
are not important, because ucation," for the publica-
the amounts mentioned tion of newspapers and
represent only a fraction for radio and television.
of what was spent. The In Ohio, where right-to-
amount of union expendi- work was on the ballot,
tures, however, compared according to my informa-
with that of official Demo- tion at least $3 million was
cratic groups, is notable. openly spent, and if all
For it shows clearly the the other efforts, includ-
extent to which there is ing the work of union of-
a Democratic-Labor Party. ficers and members, were
This alliance must be rec- evaluated, the sum would
ognized in all political be at least $6 million. That
calculations from here on. is more than either of the
It must be remembered, major parties reported for
so far as the amounts re- the whole nation.
ported are concerned, that In Ohio there is no doubt
the unions' contribution that business and indus-
was vastly more than $1.8 try groups spent a very
million. These reported ex- considerable amount in
by the Republican Party.
This was for the right-to-
work proposal. That so
little in the form of votes
resulted is because the la-
bor-union groups spent
their money more effec-
tively and because they
had more precinct work-
ers in the field.
All the foregoing proves
several points: First, that
federal laws requiring re-
ports on expenditures pro-
duce unrealistic pictures
of what goes on in a cam-
paign, since political pow-
er is measured by the
manpower and woman-
power which carries on
the hard local activities,
such as getting sympa-
thetic voters to register
and vote.
★
Also, Republican reli-
ance on a large war chest
is based upon a delusion.
Money—some money—is
needed in campaigns even
for the most minor of-
fices. But efficient organi-
zation is productive of
votes. And the vote is the
ultimate source of power.
A much more important
lesson is that until the
courts, or Congress or
someone is able to define
what is political and what
is educational or some
other name; no legislation
can provide the public
with an accurate portray-
al of what happens in an
election.
addition to that reported