Japan Nearing Two-Party System
With Conservatives Holding Edge
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
TOKYO—With succeeding elections
Japan has approached closer and closer
toward a two-party political system.
The real governing authority is the
Diet, consisting of a House of Representatives and a House of Councillors.
The members of the former are elected
for four years, and they were last elected
in 1957. The latter are elected for
six years, with half the membership
elected every three years.
An election will be held for councillors
two months hence, and the campaign
is already under way.
Analysis of Parties
The Liberal-Democratic Party is
about as conservative as the British
Conservatives in domestic affairs. It
holds a majority over the Socialists by
about two to one. It is strongly pro-
United States and anti-Communist.
Hence, if any difficulty arises in our relations
with Japan, it will come from
the Socialists, and I have made a rather
careful examination of the nature
and beliefs of that party.
It is common to speak of the Socialists
as divided into two distinct groups,
left and right. But a long interview
with a very practical and intelligent
leader in that party reveals that the
Socialists are a very assorted group.
There are several leaders representing
a variety of views. There is no single
spokesman for the party, as there is in
Britain.
About all that the party elements
have in common is a theoretical commitment
to Marxism. But when one
considers the many ideas held by
members as to how far the government
should go in realizing this goal and how
fast it should travel, the imminence
of any sort of peaceful revolution in
the economic system appears to be
quite remote.
Moderate Socialism
In comparison with the reforms instituted
by the British Labor government
from 1945 to 1951, the program
of this Japanese Socialist was much
more moderate. In fact, he would be
classed as considerably to the right of
former Prime Minister Clement Attlee
and far to the right of Aneurin Bevan.
There was plenty of evidence in
what he said that he had quite carefully
studied the failures and successes
of the Attlee government and had profited
thereby. He favors nationalizing
only coal and electricity and the national
bank. He would not favor nationalizing
steel or ocean transportation or
shipbuilding.
As for welfare measures, he seems
to have no desire to go beyond what
the present conservative government
has already done. A form of social security
is accepted by all. So far as hospitals
are concerned, they are already
held by regional governments. No
wholesale governmentalizing of the
medical profession was suggested, although
the Ministry of Health has
provision for some areas having no
doctors.
When I asked about nationalizing
the land, the Socialist leader was emphatic.
The farmers are satisfied with
the land reforms instituted during the
American occupation. They are happy
with their small land ownership. When
I suggested that “farmers are capitalists,”
he laughed and nodded.
Immaturity Factor
Over all, he made the point that his
party is young. It has not clearly formalized
its ideas. There is no agreement
within it. And he believed that
the party was not ready to take over
the power of government.
His attitude toward the United States
was friendly, and he said that if the
Socialists should come to power and
pursue an anti-American policy, they
would lose their power in six months.
I want to make clear, however, that
there are some Socialists who are definitely
anti-American, just as there are
members of the British Labor Party
who hold such views. There are also
considerable Communist elements in
the party as well as in the labor unions.
A Communist Party as such is
practically nonexistent. There are only
four Communists in the entire Diet.
The conservative Liberal-Democratic
Party seems safe for some time, although
there may be changes in its
present leadership. For, as in our Republican
Party, there are internal
troubles.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.