Congress Battle Looms Over Oil
Depletion Allowance Reduction
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
OKLAHOMA CITY — I have found
that the hottest subject of concern in
the three big oil-producing states of
Louisiana, Texas and Oklahoma is the
forthcoming battle in Congress over the
depletion allowance in computing taxes
on oil producers.
Bills have been introduced by Sen.
John J. Williams and by Rep. T. H. Mac-
Donald to cut the allowance from its
present 27½% to 15%. The subject has
been a perennial bone of contention in
Congress for two decades. Now, with
the northern liberals stronger than
ever, the pressure for a revision will be
much greater.
Tax-Exempt Income
This allowance amounts to permission
for an oil producer to exempt a part of
his income from federal taxes. The deduction is 27½% unless this would
amount to more than 50% of the producer’s net income. It was put into the
law in this form in 1926.
In general, the purpose of the allowance was to encourage the independent
producer to gamble his capital on drilling, which in recent years has become
more risky. Also, new fields become
more difficult to exploit because it is
necessary to drill deeper.
Loophole Claimed.
The allowance is attacked for the
most part as a big tax loophole which
enables the gathering of huge returns
and large fortunes. And so it might look
to the individual who has not studied
the circumstances involved in the oil
business.
It is claimed by the proponents of reduction that, in the last analysis, every-
one who starts a new business takes
risks and that for every one who is successful considerably more fail. One
federal official in the war years made
the silly remark that “the wells that are
going to be dry should not be drilled.”
My space in this article prevents a
lengthy discussion of the arguments in
favor of the depletion allowance. I
shall attempt that in another piece. But
it is pointed out in defense of the allowance that it is not unlike the depreciation
allowed the owner of a piece of machinery, except that this one represents
a depreciation of capital.
For the independent producer must
lose so much money in drilling unproductive wells — far outnumbering productive ones — that in order to keep in
the business he must do well financially
when he strikes a good well.
Moreover, the activity of these independents and “wildcatters” is important to the big companies because they
are in a sense the scouting agents, the
people who go ahead of the big companies and discover new fields which are
later worked by the major concerns.
Consequently, all oil producers, big and
little, are united on the issue.
Reduction Opposed
The political potential in Congress
favoring the depletion allowance is not
just the representatives of the oil-producing states. For depletion allowances
are given for producers of other minerals, including sulphur, uranium, and a
range of metal ores down to sand and
clay. The percentages allowed in these
cases are less than 27½% but are substantial. Hence, representatives from
the states with such resources are likely to agree with those from the oil
states.
The strong leadership of Sen. Lyndon
Johnson and Speaker Sam Rayburn will
be taxed to the utmost in this coming
battle in Congress. It seems to be taken
for granted in Texas that its senior
senator is a strong possibility for the
Democratic nomination in 1960. He has
already attained something of the stature of the compromiser that Henry
Clay held more than a century ago. His
capacity for compromise, as well as his
parliamentary skill, was shown in the
cloture fight. This will be an even
greater test.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.