Seeds of North-South Division
Sowed in Post-Civil War Corruption
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In the course of a recent extended
trip through Southern States I found
many thoughtful Southerners reading
Hodding Carter's moving account of the
aftermath of the Civil War, "The Angry
Scar." But the South hardly needs this
reminder of those dark and tragic
years.
It is their heritage, firmly held in
bitter memories. It is for us in the
North to read and reflect upon those
deeds of our forefathers. For they were
the sowers of the seed, the harvest of
which is still abundant.
Moderation Keynote
Hodding Carter is a Southerner who
is known, wherever books are read, as
a reasonable, moderate, intelligent in-
terpreter of southern culture, prob-
lems, and achievements — willing al-
ways to admit the failures as well as to
praise the achievements of the post-
Civil War Southern States. His book
hardly mentions the present controver-
sy over integration. It argues neither
for nor against the law or the principle
involved in the Supreme Court's opin-
ion.
It is appropriate that his account
should begin when President Lincoln
read to a crowd on the White House
lawn his plans for the reunion of the
states. It was a reasonable plan, hu-
mane, and legally sound. It met with
no applause in the North. The Repub-
lican Party, intoxicated with the pros-
pect of endless political supremacy, car-
ried its will to the end.
In a grim recital of proven fact, Car-
ter tells of what he calls those "Years
of the Locust"—300 pages of detail.
Many Wrongs Done
In the final days of a war already
won there was the wanton destruction
and looting of property. Later there
were the unbelievable profits of rogues
who trafficked in what property re-
mained; military tyranny by the Union
armies of occupation; the claque of
false propaganda about Confederate
"atrocities"; screams of vengeance from
northern pulpits; southern pastors
forced from their own churches; and,
most galling of all, new governments in
Southern States officered by low char-
acters from the byways, called scala-
wags, unscrupulous carpetbaggers from
the North, and illiterate, primitive ex-
slaves.
Above all, there was the rule over the
whole nation by a Congress dominated
by fanatical Republican radicals. Never
was Congress so tainted with corrup-
tion.
The voices of moderates were lost in
the uproar. Gens. William T. Sherman
and Pierre Beauregard expressed on the
one hand sympathy and on the other a
willingness to grant rights to the Ne-
groes. It was years later, after the white
people of the South regained measur-
able control, that there came Jim Crow
as a defense against the still vindictive
Republican majority in Congress.
In the melee, the nation's two-party
system, our best shield for individual
liberty, was all but destroyed. This has
meant that there can be no real align-
ment between conservatives and liberals
on a national scale because of the issue
of civil rights. Two distinct cultures
were created, and at the heart of the
problem is the unassimilated Negro.
Memories Live On
As a grandson of an Irish couple who
left poverty and misgovernment for bet-
ter times in America, I learned how
even after centuries the name of Crom-
well was remembered and hated. Mem-
ories are living things which must be
weighed in the balance in all social and
political calculations.
The South neither asks nor expects
restitution for the wrongs of Reconstruc-
tion. Victors and victims alike now rest
with a wiser judgment than ours. But
we in the North should know and sym-
pathize with what the South remem-
bers. This is no time, in the face of for-
eign threats, to intensify the inevitable
differences among our own people. Per-
haps, with the political superiority that
goes with greater numbers we can force
a change in the externals of southern
habits and policies. But we can also,
generations later, show the magnanim-
ity that was so lacking in those unfor-
tunate days after Appomattox.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.