Our Heavily Mortgaged Future
and the Prospect of More Debt

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In a very important address before the Tax Foundation in New York, Maurice H. Stans, director of the budget, spoke with grim warning of what three decades of extravagance have passed on to the 1960s and beyond.

It would require a degree of wishful thinking denied me to believe that such sober warnings might stand against the pressures that have created the money situation in which we are gripped.

But this thoroughly experienced business executive, who has served the public in Washington since 1953, has maintained his conscience, name and reputation.

Despite the heroic efforts of President Eisenhower to halt the tide and his prospective efforts to finish his term fighting for the credit of the United States, a President is, to a degree, the prisoner of past executive and congressional commitments.

Since the director of the budget is only the President's right arm, he must share that prison. But he knows the facts and has the courage and competence to give a warning.

In that area of public spending which concerns the executive department's households, he has considerable discretion. In his job there, he follows the principle which he describes as "a uniform distribution of dissatisfaction."

He makes a selection of choices among competing demands for money among the departments. But the proportion of federal outlays on the administrative expenses of those departments is relatively small. The big bite, aside from the military, is for mortgages on future outlays by laws which have been passed before. For example: The government is committed to find and spend between $25 billion and $35 billion on highways; $8 billion on civil works under way; $6 billion on public housing; more than $4 billion on merchant marine subsidies and ship replacement subsidies necessary because the powerful maritime unions make U.S. shipping too expensive to compete with foreign ships.

These and a variety of other obligations created in the past pass a legal requirement of $98 billion on to the 1960s.

There are other programs initiated in the past which, because of changed conditions, should be cut back or eliminated. The President a year ago asked for 13 such cuts. Congress acted on only three.

There are liabilities for past services to be added. Military retirement outlays will be $30 billion; civil employee retirements, $27.5 billion; future compensation for veterans plus pensions will be $300 billion.

Thus, the total mortgage on the future tax burden, aside from military, welfare, and commerce annual outlays, will be the incredible amount of $750 billion. That is what we must meet in the 1960s and beyond.

But the pressure for new programs will continue and be intensified every election year. According to Mr. Stans, 20 bills introduced in Congress last year, which will no doubt be renewed this year, were for future expenditures of $326 billion.

That means that unless a miracle of Presidential resistance and congressional responsibility intervenes, the budget will rise from its present level of $80 billion to something like $135 billion in the near future.

When we see the Presidential budget next month, we should know that his power extends to only 15% of the total. His hands are tied so far as 85% is concerned.

The liberals would meet this stupendous burden on the taxpayers and economy of the country by what Stans calls a "numbers game," promoted by what he calls "the cult of growth." By a formula that cannot be proved and never has been proved, it is claimed that these vast expenditures will produce more wealth to tax.

By a figure pulled out of the empty air we are expected to take the word of fatuous economists that a miracle of growth will set in to make all things possible.

Thus, they would take our real dollars now on a guess that some unseen wealth will appear to pay it back.

But when they talk about dollars, the figures are not dollars of present value. For the programs and obligations of the present, and to be imposed in the future, will create more inflation and thus pinch the taxpayer of the 1960s both in what he must pay the government and what he must pay for what he needs in the market.

There is the grim prospect. I have enough faith left to believe that if a Presidential candidate will put this squarely to the people, with a firm commitment to hold firm for economy, he will be elected. It will in such a case be a test of American character, one of the most serious ever imposed.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.