ECONOMIC
VERITIES
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Speaking before the annual meeting of the American Economic Association, former Presidential Adviser Gabriel Hauge, now of the Manufacturers Trust Co. in New York, offered his fellow economists some worth-while suggestions about how they might be of great service to their government and their country. In addition, he explained the course taken by the administration, which he recently left, in meeting its responsibility in the recession now happily ended.

Perhaps the most important point he made was that in meeting the vast changes inevitable in economic conditions, government at best can be "marginal" as compared with the forces which begin and end economic recessions. He said: "It has been soundly observed that it is not government policies themselves that bring about a recovery in our kind of economy but rather it is the private reaction to public policy that does so—or fails to do so."

★

This is something that needs saying over and over again to contradict the impression of some politicians and economists that government—mainly the Federal government—has a series of push buttons that in themselves are economic laws or, perhaps, more correctly said, can override natural economic laws.

Those inexorable laws may not be amended, nor made nor repealed by any elite which happens to be possessed of governmental power. Some shallow fellow said some years ago that "economic laws were made for men, not men for laws."

The point is that economic laws are made by a myriad of men, not in concert, but each acting according to his enlightened or unenlightened selfishness. They prevail over the efforts of any small group that attempts to violate them. Economic seers may study those laws through expert observations of the tides and winds; economic conditions which they generate. But to say that economists create those tides and winds is like saying that the weatherman makes the weather.

Under modern conditions, however, government is very close to certain factors in the economic process and by making wise use of the management of these it may create, as Hauge says, "private reactions" to them. For example, in the first days of the Roosevelt administration, two of those factors were worrying the American people a great deal. One was the condition of the banks in which they had their money. The other was the Federal government's attitude toward its own housekeeping. The response of the Roosevelt administration was to save the banks and keep them in the hands of their owners, thus assuring depositors, creditors and debtors. The second was to have Congress pass a drastic economy program. The effect upon the public was instantaneous. That unseen but immensely powerful factor called "confidence" was restored. The wheels began to turn. People began to invest, risk, plan and go to work. Nothing so contributed to the recovery as that.

In his speech, Hauge tells—with a pride based upon the firm fact of success how the Eisenhower administration rode through the 1957-1958 recession without being stampeded into the measures urged by hysterical politicians and economists. It refused to ask for vast outlays in public works, which as anyone should know could not be gotten under way for a year or more—too late for any emergency. Also, it refused to cut taxes, which again could have had no effect for a long time.

★

Instead, it appraised the economic situation in January with a measure of optimism which, as we look back, was justified. Next, it delicately eased credit. Third, it pushed ahead defense contracts. And, finally, it used certain built-in stabilizers such as unemployment insurance, and it accelerated the already-authorized highway program.

Beyond that, it placed its faith in the natural capacity of supply and demand to bring about recovery. The proof of its wisdom was the fact of recovery.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.