President Standing Firm Against
Federally Financed 'Prosperity'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Nothing more clearly shows the gap
between the liberal-labor block in Congress and the President's efforts to provide a compromise with federal planning than the history of the depressed area issue.
A bill sponsored by Sens. Douglas and Payne in 1958 passed both houses and met with a Presidential pocket veto. The President's program provided for a measure of relief to genuinely depressed areas, but this was ignored in favor of the Douglas-Payne proposal.
Loans and Free Money
Again the President has recognized what he conceives to be a problem, but Sen. Douglas and Rep. Flood have returned to the subject with bills of their own. These companion bills differ only slightly from the measure passed last year. With the greatly added strength of the liberal-labor bloc, it would seem that the Douglas-Flood measure will be passed again (it has already passed the Senate), with action by the President a problem which he will meet when the time comes.
The Douglas-Flood measure would provide loans and also grants (free money) both for industrial areas suffering chronic unemployment and also for rural areas in which the standard of living is significantly below that of the rest of the country. It would involve federal expenditures of several hundred million dollars.
It would also set up a new bureau which, if experience is to be our guide, we must assume would attain the immortality common to all government agencies, with bureaucratic pressure to increase its authority and funds.
But the federal government already has at least nine other agencies aimed at the same problem — also spending hundreds of millions.
Since the Days of Hoover
This sort of thing has been common ever since the days of Hoover. The dismal failure of the Tugwell-Wallace rural relocation plan is one grim reminder of the futility of government-planned and financed prosperity.
The Tugwell-Wallace idea was to move the people to fairer fields. The Douglas-Flood idea is to bring prosperity to the people where they are.
Viewed historically, the recourse of a worker or farmer when he found things hard was to move on his own initiative. Mobility was the American tradition. It certainly had a lot to do with the growth of the nation. But the new social philosophy contemplates a static population "done movin'" and a paternal government bringing plenty for all.
Practically, the plan assumes that free enterprise will move to places merely because the government offers a handout. There is no assurance that in a free enterprise economy industry will move merely because of such minor inducements as money for plants and the like. It locates its operations with many other things in mind—access to its market, cost of transportation, facilities for moving its products out and its raw materials in, the character of the available working force, the business climate of the community and many other considerations.
'Chronically Depressed' Areas
There is also the very practical problem of what can be considered "chronically depressed" areas. Here enters the question of want and need. Almost every area thinks it needs more than it has. Almost every area has companies and workers who cannot make the grade.
Under the Douglas-Flood plan, it would be relatively easy to select the really impoverished areas. But when that need is met—if it can be—there are communities slightly less worse off, and so on. If the initial dose fails, there will need to be more doses, probably indefinitely. It would be like publicly financed housing, which starts with real needs and goes on and on to higher and higher income people.
Here is one of the issues on which the President can make a powerful case for his new conservatism.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.