John Foster Dulles Deserves
the Prayerful Thanks of America
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When an important figure leaves public office, his record and policies pass from the news of the day and become the material out of which history is made. Many years may pass before any evaluation can be reached which will be generally accepted. In fact, such agreement may never be reached, because new facts may be turned up and new theories about this or that decision of his may be created,
However, when an individual of extraordinary stature and capacity has made that record, it becomes to a degree a tradition in the shaping of national policy. In fact, it may well become national policy.
*
Such an individual is John Foster Dulles, who over a period of 30 years appeared from time to time in official diplomatic capacities and for seven more served in a cooperative capacity with an administration dominated by a party of which he was not a member. Then for more than six years, as secretary of state, he literally made the foreign policy of the United States.
Whatever may be the various evaluations of that policy, and I believe it deserves the prayerful gratitude of Americans, two facts cannot be contested. No secretary of state since the founding of the nation has come to the task with such technical training and experience. And no one, with the possible exception of Woodrow Wilson, has so impressed American diplomacy with the stamp of moral principle.
If a supreme destiny had undertaken the preparation of a man to guide American policy in a period of unprecedented crisis, it could have done no better than circumstance provided for Dulles.
*
As the published accounts have made clear, the formative characters in the early life of Dulles were his father and his grandfather. The former was a Presbyterian clergyman of character and distinction. The latter was John W. Foster, who, after many years as an important career diplomat, became for a time secretary of state, succeeding James G. Blaine in that office in the last few months of the Harrison administration.
John W. Foster was a public servant who, perhaps beyond any individual of his time excepting William H. Seward, saw clearly the importance of our Pacific relations to our safety and advantage. His many missions to the Far East guided his efforts while secretary of state to bring about the peaceful annexation of the essential outpost of Hawaii. When President Cleveland took office, annexation was forcefully, vehemently abandoned. But circumstances over the four years that followed revealed the logic and necessity of President McKinley’s decision to press the subject to a successful conclusion.
After leaving public service, John W. Foster wrote a comprehensive review called "A Century of American Diplomacy," which as a college student I studied with more profit than had been provided by any other source. It was in his grandfather's house that John Foster Dulles learned the basic elements of foreign policy and strategy.
The sister of Dulles' mother married Robert Lansing, who took over the State Department from William Jennings Bryan. All of Dulles' years as a public official and lawyer had had to do with foreign affairs. No notable secretary of state—not even Jefferson, or Webster, or Seward, or Blaine, or Hay, or Root, or Hughes—had such specific technical training.
★
The insistence of Dulles upon morality as a basis of foreign policy—a departure from the old concept of mere immediate national interest—marks the culmination and triumph of what Woodrow Wilson inaugurated in his attitude toward a Mexican dictator and Soviet Russia.
As for Dulles’ guidance in the past six years, the distinction rests upon the undeniable fact that with firmness and skill we have been spared the tragedy of war. This is the true measure of diplomacy, to keep the peace with honor. We may not feel another such guiding hand in our time.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.