Price-Fixing Proposals: a Threat
to Free Enterprise and Consumer
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The two armies of giants in the retail trade are at it again.
On the one side are manufacturers who wish to prevent, by federal law, the cutting of prices by retail establishments. On the other, there are the chain stores, department stores, and discount houses that would sell at a price below that fixed by the manufacturers.
On the side of the latter are various departments of the administration, including the Department of Justice, which points out that the bills proposed would be out of step with the antitrust acts and the principles of free enterprise.
There are bills in the House and Senate which would permit manufacturers to fix a minimum retail price for their products.
*
All retailers are familiar with the origins of this in 1937, when the Miller-Tydings bill became law. This, however, merely permitted states to enact the so-called fair trade laws. But these fair trade laws have had several setbacks in decisions of state courts which have declared them unconstitutional.
Also a Federal Circuit Court of Appeals declared in the case of General Electric vs. Masters Mail Order that a mail order company could not be prevented from selling at cut rates in states with fair trade laws. This practically left the field wide open.
The bills to close this gap and to permit minimum price fixing by manufacturers were introduced in the Senate by Sens. Humphrey and Proxmire and in the House by Rep. Oren Harris, chairman of the House Committee on Interstate Commerce.
*
The argument for these bills is that the small independent retailer needs protection against chain stores, department stores, and discount houses which, because of large volume, can afford to sell at a smaller profit on individual items than can the little fellow.
It is difficult to name any other legislation in Congress of more concern to more people, pro and con, than this. For there are millions of "little fellows" on both sides. There are the small retailers, and there are consumers who, in the face of inflation, want to buy as cheaply as possible.
The case for these consumers has been championed by the AFL-CIO, which has joined the administration in opposition to the bills. The AFL-CIO spokesman, Peter Henle, director of research, has summarized the consumers' argument:
"The AFL-CIO views this proposal with grave concern. The wage and salary workers organized in AFL-CIO unions represent a very large portion of the consuming public, whose interests we believe will be adversely affected by the adoption of this proposal.
"We think that federal resale price maintenance will, if enacted (1) increase the cost of living, (2) encourage high-price, low-volume methods of distribution as against low-price, high-volume distribution, (3) intensify the consumer's confusion in the marketplace through the further development of unknown 'house brands' by the same manufacturers who make well-known name brands, and (4) offer no real assistance to small business."
*
There is the argument on principle, also: The peril of any sort of price fixing by anyone, either the private manufacturer or the government.
Suppose the manufacturers fix prices backed by federal law. Who is to determine what should be the legitimate profit that they will make? No doubt, when that question arises after the enactment of these restrictions on minimum prices, the sponsors of these bills would come forth with government regulation of manufacturers' prices.
Thus, free enterprise would suffer all along the line.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.