Conservative Hawaiians Dubious
About Benefits From Statehood
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
TOKYO—We were in Honolulu the
day when the President officially admitted the 50th state. There was no
dancing in the streets, beyond the
normal gaiety for which the city is
famous. Conservative people are very
dubious, for reasons which I shall try
to explain.
Enthusiasm, I was told by a reliable
reporter, is confined to those politicians
who are “singing songs of expectation”
and the press, which assumes new dignity and importance on the national
scene.
My reporter friend told me that the
only “common citizens” who are glad
are those who have been expecting that
statehood would by some magic lighten
the cost of government and ease taxes.
But they were soon disillusioned when
they realized that the $400,000 that
used to be assumed by Uncle Sam for
territorial government purposes would
now have to come from their own
pockets.
Must Pay Own Way Now
The prospect of more federal grants,
because they will have three full-
fledged members of Congress instead
of a quasi member, was dampened
when it was revealed that the bill for
bringing the child state into the world
would be $1,250,000 and that it would
be footed by the state itself. This would
include $100,000 for transcribing the
constitutional convention proceedings
when an “anticipatory” charter was
created in 1950. Judges must have this
record to decipher the intent of the
statesman who created the State Constitution.
With such a variegated population,
so far as national antecedents are concerned, the political future is confused.
There are still some native Hawaiians
in Hawaii. They are not too happy because they fear they will lose farm
lands and homesites, hitherto reserved
to them by the Home Act, which will
be transferred to the federal government. Because of the great influences
of politics in federal policy under the
new regime, this rather impotent minority will not have enough influence
to protect itself.
Potent Political Force
The very large proportion of Japanese-Americans are a potent political
force. Political awareness is especially
sharp among the younger members of
that group, many of whom served with
great distinction in American forces in
the war. Also, they have notable political leaders, mostly Democratic.
The old Chinese-American group
that once wielded a political balance of
power has ceased to figure in the political equation.
There are many Filipinos who make
up a large part of the strength of the
International Longshoremen’s and
Warehousemen’s Union. Here the politically shrewd and active leaders have
schooled them for action for political
and economic objectives.
Then there are Caucasians who are,
in the minds of those of other origins,
associated with a past in which business interests exploited labor and dominated politics with their money and
influence in Washington. Like so many
of their prototypes in the United
States, they reach the melancholy conclusion that “they grow too soon rich”
and “too late schmart” in the realities
of politics. For it is not money and
Washington that can control politics,
here as elsewhere in the United States,
but great manpower and voting power
now exploited by politicians and demagogues.
With the usual shrewd disclaimer
that they have little political power—“only about 15,000 reliable voters”—
the ILWU, along with the United Public Workers, with 3,000 members, really hold great power in politics. The
UPW includes government workers,
mostly sheriff’s officers and firemen, although efforts to organize police have
not succeeded. The ILWU, ejected from
the CIO some years ago, is headed by
‘Jack Hall, the viceroy of Harry
Bridges. The Hall record is known to
all but his power in the union is unimpaired.
Best Democratic Prospect
Probably the most potent Democratic prospect for either governor or U.S.
senator is John A. Burns, now delegate
to Congress. He would prefer to run
for the Senate, but the governorship
would give him immense power in
staffing the new government—2,000
jobs, along with judgeships and other
rich patronage. He is on most congenial terms with the ILWU and has
effectively built himself up with the
Japanese-American politicians. On the
Republican side, there is the present
governor, William F. Quinn, a colorful
and effective young man who will probably run for governor or senator.
There are many other candidates for
the best offices under the new regime—
governor, lieutenant governor, two
senators, and one U.S. representative.
Nothing is clear yet about who will run
for which. But when I return to the
new state the atmosphere will be
clearer and I shall report thereon.
There will be a plebiscite a few weeks
hence, and also the primary. Election
will be in late June or July.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.