RAYMOND MOLEY:
Nuclear Application
to Peaceful Project
The London Times recently reported that the Atomic Energy Commission is planning to initiate a small atomic explosion early next year in Alberta, to be paid for by the Richfield Oil Corp.
The report, however, has not been confirmed by the Canadian government, which would have the last say, and there are indications that the Canadian government is reluctant to give its approval.
For many years geologists and oil companies have known of vast deposits of oil in Northern Alberta. These are in what is known as the Athabasca oil sands.
The development of these resources has been prevented by the fact that the oil is of such a high viscosity that it cannot be brought to the surface by the normal processes of production. In layman's terms, it is so thick and heavy that it cannot be pumped or will not flow to the surface.
Several oil companies have large interests in these fields, among them two companies with offices here in Los Angeles, Richfield and Union.
An idea that has been in a process of development is that if great heat could be applied to these underground oil sands the oil could be sufficiently liquefied to be recovered and used. Since nuclear energy is essentially the release of tremendous heat, it might be used far underground and thus permeate the oil sands.
It has been suggested also that nuclear heat be applied to the oil shale which lies in prodigious abundance in Colorado, Wyoming and Utah. But experts have concluded that the application of this form of heat energy to shale would present much more difficulty than in the Alberta oil sands.
The Richfield Oil Corp., the Atomic Energy Commission, and the Canadian authorities have had the feasibility of an experiment under consideration for some time.
In a very thorough report on the subject, the Alberta Technical Committee, an agency of the provincial government of Alberta, has encouraged the plan and has submitted its recommendations to the government, which in turn has been in consultation with the dominion government.
At the moment, the problem is whether the international situation makes it possible to try the experiment. In short, whether such nuclear explosions would fall under the category of testing and raise objections which have been so prominent among those who have opposed the testing of atomic weapons,
As everyone knows, those objections have largely been based upon the danger to human life and health in the release of radioactive elements.
The Alberta Technical Committee has gone into this fully. It says that an explosion of an amount of atomic fuel which would be equivalent to the heat generated by 1,800 tons of coal at a level 1,200 feet below the surface would not be dangerous.
The impact of such an explosion would be very great and, in fact, would resemble an earthquake felt at least 15 miles away. But, according to the report, it would not open any fissures in the ground through which radioactive influences would be released in the atmosphere. The radioactive product, it is expected, would be effectively confined to an insoluble slag.
If, as oil people hope, the government ban can be lifted and the experiment should succeed, the result might well open for use one of the largest oil fields in the Western Hemisphere. It would also demonstrate how, many years after the horrors of Hiroshima, this monstrous agency of nature and man's ingenuity could be put to peaceful uses.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.