RAYMOND MOLEY:
A Candidate's Day
Has Only 24 Hours
SAN FRANCISCO—At
this moment in a Presidential year the friends,
well-wishers and expectant citizens who are interested in a candidate should
be admonished about some facts of political life.
The more prominent an individual becomes in a democracy, the more demands will be made on his
time and attention. Unfortunately, the planning of Providence failed to
provide that as a person increases in importance, the hours of his day should
increase in number.
★
And Providence also has implanted in the human breast an element, variously called pride, vanity
or self-esteem, which becomes inflamed when any suspicion of neglect or indifference can be detected.
This element ignites when a prospective candidate for high office attempts to channel the
importunities of the aforementioned friends, well-wishers or expectant citizens through some subordinate.
There is little use in attempting to reason with these natural phenomena, for they transcend reason.
With a prominent person they are the inevitable consequences of high note or public reputability.
They have to be lived with as well as possible.
Last summer I was told by various people that Vice President Nixon had become more and more inaccessible.
This, it was solemnly proclaimed, was very bad politics. I was told in one instance that the governor of New
Hampshire had tried to get the Vice President on the telephone and failed and was mad about it.
★
If the advice of the governor of New Hampshire, which was apparently what the governor was desirous of imparting to the
Vice President, was as bad as his judgment and discretion proved to be in the recent campaign up there,
it is well that he failed to reach the Vice President.
Last week, out here in California, another loud complaint emanated from Sacramento. It seems that in the selection of a slate
of prospective delegates to represent the state of California at the Republican convention in Chicago next
July there had been included only a few members of the Republican Party in the state Legislature. The number included
was regarded as altogether too small.
So it was decided to send a committee of members to Washington to complain to the Vice President in person. The Vice
President being the accomplished diplomat that he is, the complaint will presumably be met with some sort of compromise
which will end this particular incident.
But it will not end the complaints about the "inaccessibility" of the Vice President. Such complaints are just as characteristic of
a Presidential candidacy as the crowds, the parades and the billboards.
They are not leveled at the Vice President alone, although since he is the only likely Republican candidate he will get more
than will Kennedy or Johnson. However, the same complaints trouble them, too, for they also have 24 hours in the day,
and their duties are manifold.
★
In every Presidential campaign with which I have been familiar, there have been growling and hissing on all sides by people whom the "big un's"
couldn't see or listen to. It was most notable in the case of the one individual who came to be known as the most accessible of public
men, Franklin D. Roosevelt.
It was a major complaint against candidate Dewey and even Gen. Eisenhower. The wrath of those who consider themselves neglected is generally directed
first at the subordinates around the candidate. Then indignation is directed at the candidate because he has selected such an inefficient staff.
Such complaints, when directed at a man who is not only a candidate but a person in high public office, fail to take into account the fact that he is
trying to perform a difficult job amid all sorts of irrelevant interruptions.
The more one reflects upon what American democracy demands of its Presidents, the more the wonder grows as to why there are any candidates
for the office at all. Or why such candidates are usually such fine and useful men. It must be some strange compulsion that brings them to accept a
transitory glory at such a price.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.