RAYMOND MOLEY:
Judging the Press:
It's Getting Better
At the time of the annual meetings of editors and publishers in Washington and New York, the Ayer Awards are given to newspapers whose presentation of the news is regarded as most attractive and interesting to their readers.
Four awards are made in four classes of newspapers: One to the best among those with circulations over 50,000; another to a newspaper with between 10,000 and 50,000; another to one whose circulation is below; and finally, to the most readable among the tabloids. Then a cup is awarded to the favorite among the preceding four.
*
The judgments are made under the auspices of N. W. Ayer & Son, a very large and long-established advertising agency in Philadelphia. Three judges are selected — one a typographical expert, another whose interest is in art, and a third who is supposed to represent the reading public. In the 1960 panel of judges, I had the interesting responsibility of serving as the third of these. In 1947 I served in a like capacity in the Ayer Awards. The names of the newspapers receiving the awards are not pertinent to the comments which I am making here. But the changes and improvements made by the press in the 13 years are most interesting.
*
The first task of the judges is to scan the front pages of 800 newspapers, which are laid out in groups according to the four classes specified above. Since the front page of a newspaper is its show window, its attractiveness is most important in catching and holding the attention of readers and this method of making a preliminary judgment is most relevant.
After a preliminary sorting of the most attractive in each group, the judges turn to the inside of the newspapers, especially the editorial page or pages.
The judges are not concerned with the content, although the selection of news items deemed worthy of most attention is noted.
In scanning the newspapers in the various classes in both years in which I was a judge, my impression was that newspapers with smaller circulation are more able to experiment and innovate than are the big metropolitan dailies.
★
In 1947 and in 1960 the top award, the cup, went to a smaller newspaper. These smaller ones are able to make changes more easily for the same reason that a compact automobile can maneuver better in traffic and turn more easily than larger cars.
This is especially true in one respect. They are able to present more complete stories on the front page, thus reducing the annoying task of a reader who hates to be turning back to the inside of a paper for the continuation of an item, and then back again to the front page, and so on indefinitely. The reader may be on a train or a bus, and such shuffling is not easy.
★
In the 13 years great progress has been made in illustrations by pictures, diagrams and charts. The pictures or other illustrative material on the front pages grow more and more eye-catching. Attention does not necessarily have to be caught by pictures of automobile wrecks or witnesses in murder trials. Some of the more progressive newspapers have given much attention to illustrations of items of international or national interest which tell a story in themselves.
Typography, spacing, and mechanical work have shown progress. Many newspapers have moved into new plants in the past decade and have taken the occasion for a good deal of face lifting.
Over all, the press is serving its readers better and better.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.