Medical Aid-to-the-Aged Plans
Should Be Given Further Study

BY RAYMOND MOLEY
I humbly claim the privilege of a comment in behalf of all commentators like me, as well as all and sundry editorial writers of opinion whose task is to inform the public concerning issues before Congress and the country.
This year the task is unusually complicated.  Currently there have been projected into both the campaigns for the Presidency and Congress and the legislative program in Congress a number of problems of supreme importance to the future of this republic—farm surpluses, the building and rebuilding of cities, the improvement of our children’s education, and the need of mortal man for patching up his decaying health as he moves into the twilight of life.
*
I might mention also the problems of how to deal with Khrushchev and his not-so-merry men, and the military defense of our nation and our friends.
Of those among whom I have the pleasure of membership, there is exacted the task of analyzing what congressmen and cabinet members have their troubles in analyzing—although that is their primary job.
We commentators might simply give up and use our ink and paper to speculate on easy matters (since we are seldom discovered in the sin of error, the fleeting life of today’s issue of a newspaper or magazine being what it is)—such as who will be nominated for President in the Democratic convention or who will be Nixon’s running mate. Some of us do that in our despair.
*
For, taking one of the above unsolved issues as an example, the task of analysis is tremendous. I refer to the medical care of the aged. Before me is a fat book of 720 pages in small type—the hearings on the Forand bill. There are many other books of hearings on the same subject available.
There is the Congressional Record, wherein our statesmen have filled hundreds of pages with talk of the subject. There is before me a big pile of literature issued by organizations which have taken positions on the subject—medical associations, welfare agencies, labor unions, and others.
There is also a small booklet of 43 pages published by the American Enterprise Assn. which sums up the facts very well, such as they are.
*
I have been in this business of analyzing and explaining things since 1916, when I had my first job as a college teacher, and since 1933, when I started to write for the papers. I don’t mind the toil of reading fine print and listening to experts and making sense about complicated things. If I did, I would buy a nice farm and live on government payments.
In this case—the problem of medical care for the aged—I have done what I consider to be my full duty. As I emerge from my reading and listening with a firm conviction. There just isn’t enough known about the problem to advise any legislation this year.
The sane thing to do is for the President and Congress to get together and appoint a small, not a large, commission to report after next New Year’s Day.
*
Let the two sides, in the name of the great Jehovah and Continental Congress, agree on a few simple answers: How many people need medical care or insurance? What are the private agencies able and willing to do, and how much more can they do? After that, what will it cost the federal government to meet the need? What will be the cost in five or 10 years?
I could explain why we do not have the answers to these questions, but space does not permit. I don’t believe that the candidates for President can answer them. I agree with those members of the House Ways and Means Committee who, after listening to hours of talk, say we should wait until the facts are clear.
My final comment is like that of a professor of anatomy in a medical school long ago: “We now come to the spleen. We don’t know anything about the spleen. So much for the spleen.”
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.