Nixon strategists, including the Vice President himself, are wise in discounting the early Gallup Polls showing an advantage for the Republican Presidential ticket over the Kenhedy-Johnson combination.
In evaluating any Presidential campaign in terms of relative advantage, no general country-wide poll can be reliable. Presidents are elected by the electoral votes of states. And certain states will be the decisive elements in determining the outcome in November.
For that reason, in my comments I shall present a number of reports, based upon on-the-scene observations. The following is a report by my assistant, Raymond Moley Jr., who discussed the Ohio situation with Republican state chairman Ray Bliss and other members of the Bliss organization in Columbus.
It should be added here that Ohio is a good place to start with such evaluations. It was long regarded as a state which almost always went with the successful candidate in a Presidential election; in short, one of those things called by political reporters "pivotal."
The Republican Party in Ohio is facing an ordeal so grave, an opposition of such magnitude that it might well be on the way to such a long Democratic control as Michigan struck in 1948.
Up to that year, it should be remembered, Michigan had been a relatively safe Republican state. But a combination of weaknesses in the Republican organization and the growing power of the Reuther machine has resulted in its being overwhelmingly Democratic for 12 years. It is now reaching the end of the cycle. Ohio may be at the beginning of a similar Democratic trend.
In 1958 several factors contributed to a major Republican disaster. There was an inept state administration under Republican Gov. C. William O'Neil, further complicated by the chief executive's illness.
Businessmen overrode the warnings of Sen. Bricker and chairman Bliss and put a right-to-work amendment on the ballot. The advocates of the amendment were not well prepared, but the labor unions were. The result was a heavy registration and an overwhelming Democratic sweep at the polls. Even Bricker, hitherto unbeatable in Ohio, was defeated. Democrats won all along the line, from the governorship to the county courthouses. Both houses of the Legislature became Democratic. And the Republicans lost three congressional seats.
Today the Democrats are still at an advantage. They retain the big registration of 1958. They have Gov. Michael DiSalle, who has built himself a powerful political machine. Labor's Committee on Political Education is deeply entrenched even in the rural counties. And COPE has more money to spend than Bliss can possibly raise from Republican contributors.
The Democrats have an added incentive to win, because if they can control the Legislature they can redistrict the state, thus adding to their strength in Congress.
On the Republican side there is the outstanding Republican chairman of all of the United States. Bliss is a realist and a very able organizer. He has been laboring hard to perfect the organization of which he is the head. And he is making progress.
What he is creating is superior to anything Ohio Republicans have seen before. And it is different. He says this to county chairmen and Republican workers generally:
"These are changing times. We can't win as we have in the past with reasonably good organization. We need a perfect organization and outstanding candidates. We shall need the breaks, too. When we prepare ourselves to be good losers it is time to get out."
Candidate Kennedy, realizing the importance of Ohio, plans to spend more than a week of his time campaigning in Ohio. Against him as a candidate and with DiSalle as an organizer of his support, the Nixon-Lodge ticket may have hard going.