RAYMOND MOLEY:
It's Time for the GOP
to End Dixie Breach
It is 100 years since Lincoln was elected, and 95 years since Appomattox. But the end of civil conflict did not end that bitter division. For a ruthless Republican Party imposed a harsh peace upon the South, which ended in a permanent one-party system there. That has been the great impediment in creating a real two-party system.
The time has now come to end this division. The present crisis comes as the Democratic Party control has passed to an entirely new group, with a philosophy and policies contrary to all that the old Democratic Party stood for. That is reflected in the Los Angeles platform and in the speeches of Sen. Kennedy.
The Republicans who participated in the savage "Reconstruction" are gone. Vast changes have taken place in the nation. We have been through four wars in which the men of North and South fought side by side. The industrial pattern of the South meshes with that of the North and West. It is time for a new reconstruction—a reconstruction of the parties.
In three elections large parts of the South broke away from the Democratic Presidential tickets. In two, several states voted for the Republican candidate. In this election there is every indication that Nixon will carry several southern and border states.
On civil rights, the Democratic Party in its platform and in the statements of the candidates has advocated much harsher policies in enforcing equality than does the Republican platform.
There is no longer any reason for the South to maintain its one-party position. The fact is that in most southern states, especially in Texas, there are two parties within a nominal Democratic Party—a radical and a conservative wing.
This election will show conclusively that the Republican Party cannot be a major party in the North and West alone.
The coalition of Republicans and southern Democratic conservatives in Congress has served to fend off the most radical proposals of the Democrats who control the machinery of the party.
Republican leaders should now heal the breach with the South. So far as a party name is concerned, Republicans should sacrifice that, too, if necessary to provide unity in essentials. In some countries the matter of name can be settled by the simple device of a hyphen. Perhaps that would solve such a minor matter here.
It is true that the Democratic Party in the South is rooted in county and local organizations. It is true also that in most southern states the Republican organization is not such as to attract enlightened citizens to the Republican banner. But that can be changed by vigorous efforts by northern and southern leaders of standing and public confidence.
The task in the next four years is to realign the parties on a basis that is real. Even most radical northern Democrats want that. Whoever is elected will be a man who understands party organization and believes in party responsibility. Thus the new President and the defeated candidate can work to this end. For the defeated candidate will still be the titular leader of his party.
Here is an urgent task for the 1960s. For a strong and nearly equalized two-party system is the best protection we can have to prevent domination by minorities, the loss of party responsibility, and the impairment of liberty itself.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.