RAYMOND MOLEY:
Correcting Kennedy
on Electric Power
In his prepared statement in the first debate, Sen. Kennedy said:
"At the present rate of hydro power development—and that is the hallmark of an industrialized society—the Soviet Union by 1975 will be producing more power than we are."
This is not only inaccurate but also a very tricky statement.
Nixon challenged it in Schenectady; but Kennedy then repeated it, saying it came from "a Senate committee report."
*
Kennedy is either persisting in his inaccuracy or is misguided. Here are the facts:
Except for a very few industries, electric power is not an important element in manufacturing costs. It is not "the hallmark" of an industrialized society.
Kennedy's sentence begins with a comparison of hydro power but ends with the flat assertion that in 1975 the Soviet Union will be producing more power than the United States.
That would mean all electric power—hydro, steam, and nuclear. Even the committee report cited by Kennedy made no such claim, although it was frankly partisan. As to the relative proportions of power produced by steam and hydro, it agreed with the exhaustive study of the Edison Electric Institute.
★
The cited report was made by a Senate subcommittee composed of three Democrats—Moss of Utah, Gruening of Alaska and Muskie of Maine. They conducted a grand junket to the Soviet Union, and on their return prepared the report (committee print, Jan. 4, 1960). There was also a motion-picture film with Moss as narrator.
In both Russia and the United States, about 81% of all electric power is derived from steam produced by coal, only 19% from hydro power. The Soviet Union plans to lower its hydro power to 15%, raising steam to 85%.
This is because with the present efficiency of steam the Russians can add to that, rather than bear the great expense of building dams in remote places, with transmission lines to carry power to localities where it can be used.
In round figures, Russia had a productive capacity at the end of 1958 of 53 million kilowatts; the United States, 160 million. By 1965 the Russians will have 108 million kilowatts; the United States, 245 million. Projecting the comparisons into the 1970s, the lead of the United States will be relatively the same as in 1965.
But by the 1970s, atomic power will be comparable in cost to steam, and in both the United States and Russia hydro power will fall into relative insignificance. The United States, however, is already far ahead of the Russians in developing atomic power, and construction under way and planned will keep it ahead indefinitely.
*
The Senate subcommittee was accompanied on its trip by representatives of certain organizations dedicated to the promotion of government hydro power projects.
Apparently one of the purposes of this expensive propaganda was to promote the authorization by Congress of the Rampart Dam on the Yukon River in Alaska. Hence, Sen. Gruening was prominently displayed in the movie, and there were shots of the massive and lonely Yukon.
That project, which might be on the agenda of the Kennedy "New Frontier," would, if built, generate twice the power of Grand Coulee and top anything in Russia.
*
But what would be done with a kilowatt capacity which would supply 7 million people in a state with a population of only 167,000? The claim is that it would attract industry. But it has been shown over and over that, except for aluminum, power cost is a minor consideration in attracting industry. And, of course, industry must be attracted from somewhere if it is to settle in Alaska.
Meanwhile, the development of cheaper methods of making electricity from the atom is moving fast,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.