RAYMOND MOLEY:
Conservatives Rally
to the Nixon Cause
For several years, especially since the disastrous
Republican losses in 1958, many civic, business and
other leaders have been active in awakening voters
to their need to take a more active interest in
political affairs.
Trade associations have been urging organized efforts
to educate and train leaders at the local level to
help awaken the large, apathetic numbers who have
most to lose by the inflationary policies of the
"liberals."
That these efforts are bearing fruit is shown by the
unexpectedly large vote for Vice President Nixon in
primaries in which he made no personal contest.
It is no reflection upon Nixon's qualifications and
experience for the Presidency to say that no one,
including himself, anticipated that he or any other
Republican could get out such a vote as President
Eisenhower received in 1952 and 1956. A war hero
such as Eisenhower, Grant or Jackson creates something
other than a party vote. That can come only once in a
generation.
Meanwhile, the disparity between the Republican and
Democratic votes since the war can be accounted for by
the efficient efforts of the political labor unions, certain
pressure groups and others. To maintain a balance
between the parties it is necessary to move those hitherto
inactive voters who have most to lose by liberalism.
The first sign of a change was in the New Hampshire
primary in March. Sen. Kennedy and another Democrat
on the ballot received nearly 48,000 votes, which was a
record for the Democrats. But Nixon, without a personal
campaign, received more than 65,000. This contrasts
with the 1956 vote of 56,464 for President Eisenhower.
In the Pennsylvania primary in April the results were
more striking because of the large industrial and union
vote in the state. In the entire state Nixon received
943,797 votes, which was almost equal to the Eisenhower
vote in 1956. The Democratic votes were all write-in
choices. Kennedy received 171,000, with other Democrats
far behind.
The Nixon gains were especially notable in Allegheny
County, which has four congressional districts and which
is where great numbers of steel workers live. His vote
there was 40% higher than the 1956 Eisenhower total.
Nixon received in that county 145,000 Republican votes
and 7,200 Democratic write-in votes. Kennedy got 75,000
Democratic votes and 1,500 Republican write-in votes.
In Indiana, in the five counties with the largest industrial
population the Nixon vote was 22% higher than the 1956
vote for President Eisenhower. In Lake County, with Gary
the large center of population and with 50,000 steel
workers, Nixon received almost exactly the same vote as
was cast for President Eisenhower in 1956.
In St. Joseph County (South Bend), with 23,800 UAW
members, Nixon equaled the Eisenhower 1956 vote. In
the entire state of Indiana the Nixon vote was 401,000;
Kennedy, 351,000; and the 1956 Eisenhower vote,
351,000.
The Democratic claim has been that in all Democratic
votes, including those for Kennedy and his rivals, there
were in the whole state 10,000 more votes than for
Nixon. But to claim a victory for Kennedy, who campaigned
in Indiana, over Nixon, who did not, one must assume
that all the votes for the other Democrats would be for
Kennedy. Since there were 30,000 Democrats who did
not vote at all, this is a rather dubious claim.
The significance of the Nixon vote in all three states is
that there is a stirring of interest greater than ever before
among those opposed to modern liberalism. This shows
the effect of the many educational campaigns mentioned
above. It also disposes of the claim, industriously circulated
by Rockefeller backers in New York, that "Nixon can't win."
These primary votes by no means prove that Nixon could
win in November. But they throw a heavy burden of proof
on those who have claimed that he would be a weak
candidate. And they certainly show that no other Republican
can equal him in strength with voters.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.