THE SOUND DOLLAR AND COMMUNISM
Two Overriding Issues Make
the Voter's Decision Easier
Many thoughtful observers of free institutions, such as we have, have wondered whether in a search for more and more democracy we have not put an unbearable burden on the citizen.
That illustrious philosopher, Georg Santayana, commented that the "common citizen must be something of a saint and something of a hero." Never have we seen such a culmination of that citizen's burden as in this campaign.
To understand and cast a vote intelligently, he must not only be a "saint" and a "hero," but a seer, a psychologist, a soldier, an accountant, an economist, a historian and a lawyer.
Where does that average citizen stand at this stage in the campaign? He stands like a traveler buried in the snow, buffeted on all sides by statements, statistics, quotations. He must be numbed, confused, lost.
Consider the complexity and number of issues: Farm income, labor laws, aid to education, urban renewal, housing, medical care for the elderly, public works spending, Gallup polls of prestige, foreign aid to Laos, Cuba, Japan, a dozen African nations and where their students go, and who said what and where and when.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The voter's task can be simplified by considering two issues which are of paramount importance, affecting all others. One is the soundness and integrity of the American dollar. If that dollar is discounted, debased, all other domestic and to a degree foreign issues are without meaning.
If the keystone of the arch is rotten, all the payments, promises and plans fall in a heap. If the blood in an economy is infected or thinned, all organs suffer and die.
That is something everyone can understand. Inflation is the great killer of society, whatever the form of government may be.
Kennedy pays lip service to a balanced budget, but his program would not and cannot be enacted under a balanced budget and without inflation. He has evaded the issue of what he proposes to have the government spend. Johnson says he "hasn't calculated" what his program would cost. That is utter, reckless, blind irresponsibility.
The issue with which this is entwined is whether we shall follow the example set by Dulles, who, even in his dying months, gave no ground, offered no odds, to communism. The line must be held by responsible, experienced men at the head of this government.
The talk of "prestige" is nonsense. In the critical days when American statesmen stood for something, they were not taking polls about prestige. When George Washington took command of his little army to fight the great power of Britain, there was no taking of Gallup polls of unnamed countries about prestige, nor when Washington and his five successors pushed back three imperial powers and made a big nation from a small one.
The job was done by men experienced in foreign affairs, most of them tested in many European countries. Prestige is, after all, what somebody thinks he thinks about us. Honor and respect are what a nation or an individual earns.
The bewildered citizen should keep in mind these two issues: A currency respected over the world, and the courage to stand against communism everywhere.
And in making a decision about which team can best assume these objectives, we should look to their integrity, strength of character and experience. All else, as a famous Hoosier used to say, "are chores."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.