Government's Power Competition
Moves Into the Nuclear Plant Area
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
One of the first announced policies of Interior Secretary Udall was that no one should be employed in his department who did not favor putting the government in the business of producing and distributing electric power.
This revives and strengthens the policies of the late Secretary Ickes, who made every effort to promote government competition with the private or investor-owned companies.
The Eisenhower administration established a policy of partnership, under which natural sources of power such as great dams would be built with both government and private funds.
★
That competition with government places investors in public utilities at a disadvantage needs no repetition here. In order to attract investment, private companies must operate at a fair and governmentally regulated profit. They must pay heavy taxes to the federal, state and local governments.
The comptroller general of the United States last year made an audit of the Southwestern Power Administration and found that it had been running deficits of several millions a year.
And now there comes Charles F. Luce, the Kennedy appointee as head of the vast Bonneville Power Administration which extends through the Northwest, who announces that Bonneville has been running in the red. But despite this, he announces policies of further extending the area of public power.
Most interesting is his statement that electric power from hydro plants will be supplemented by a vast new plant at Hanford which will produce power by nuclear energy.
That plant will be a very large producer of electricity in competition with the investor-owned companies of that region. It will be, Luce said, the world's largest atomic power plant, equal in energy production to one and one-half Bonneville dams.
★
But there are now in operation, producing commercial power, five nuclear plants. The most recent one put into service is the Dresden plant, built and operated by the Commonwealth Edison Co. of Chicago. Others are the Yankee plant in Massachusetts, the Shipping Port plant operated by the Duquesne Light Co., the Vallecitos plant operated by the Pacific Gas and Electric Co. in California, and the Santa Susana plant operated by the Southern California Edison Co.
Seven more plants are under construction and several more in process of planning.
The most interesting feature of this whole private development is that the various completed plants and those under construction use a variety of reactors. This variety is essential to the future, for through such experimentation it will be possible to determine the most efficient of several means of utilizing atomic power in producing electricity.
★
To match such experimentation, the government must spend an immense amount of taxpayers' money. Why government proposes to enter the field of production is to carry out, a fixed idea that ultimately government must monopolize this great and decisive area of economic life.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.