Other GOP Groups Should Look
to Republican Associates in L.A.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
There appeared recently
in the Wall Street Journal
a letter from a young man
who in the recent Presidential campaign found it
difficult to find a means of
working effectively in behalf of the Republican ticket.
First he made a contact
with the Republican county
committee, which sent him
to his local district organization. He found no means
of serving there and then
joined the Nixon-Lodge
Volunteers. But, after the
election, he still wants to
serve in some way as a volunteer, and again he finds
the regular Republican
Party ineffective.
His problem is a very
common one. There are
hundreds of thousands
like him. And his difficulty
in finding it possible to
work in the Republican
ranks explains in large
part what is the matter
with the Republican Party
over the nation, especially
in the larger cities.
★
The solution is an organization that stands between the willing volunteers and the legally constituted party—an organization equipped to recruit,
train, and use volunteer
help.
There is such an organization in Los Angeles
County. It is called Republican Associates. It was organized nearly 10 years
ago, when the idea was
suggested to public-spirited Republicans by the
experience in Ohio in 1950,
when many such groups
were formed to help re-elect Sen. Taft.
The Los Angeles people
who founded Republican
Associates were not creating a counterweight
against labor. Rather, they
were creating an auxiliary
with volunteer membership to assist the Los Angeles County Central Committee in getting out the
Republican vote. It has a
dues-paying membership
of about 5,000. It does not
attempt to name or support specific candidates.
It has created a professionally staffed organization that serves 12 months
every year. That staff recruits and trains volunteers who work in a campaign at the county or assembly district or precinct level.
It carries on research
in voting preferences of
potential voters, creates
plans for successful campaigning and, from time
to time, issues provocative,
inspirational literature in
behalf of Republican principles.
It aids the regular party
organization in finances,
in organizing meetings,
furnishing speakers and
writing and publishing
literature and publicity.
It conducts schools for
volunteers, conducts publicity institutes and campaign clinics for candidates, and establishes wide
contacts with college students and other young
people who want to be
effective in politics.
Party organizations everywhere need such auxiliaries. Republican Associates could be created everywhere, especially in
large urban counties. Since
the Republican National
Committee in its recent
meeting in Washington declared its intention to carry on vigorously to win
the Congressional elections in 1962, it might well
study the Los Angeles
plan and promote such
auxiliary organizations.
Unless the Republican
Party can create such a
means of harnessing the
energies of the thousands
who find it difficult to
work in the party, itself,
it is doomed in 1962 to
meet the same disasters it
had in 1954, 1956 and 1960.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.