Birch Society Fails to Represent
Genuine Conservative Thinking
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In this and in a succeeding column I shall examine the claim by Robert Welch of Massachusetts, founder and spokesman of the John Birch Society, for the support of right thinking American conservatives.
I have a special reason for this expression of my opinion on the subject because so many fine people have asked me about the advisability of joining that rapidly growing organization.
In response to such questions I have strongly advised against having anything to do with the John Birch Society. For the published statements of Welch and his society have been in large part inimical to the fundamental American principles in which I have always believed.
But before coming to specifics about the society in my next column it is necessary to discuss the many meanings which are attached to the word "conservative."
*
Abraham Lincoln once said that in a dream he saw two men fighting with each other. One was clothed in a large overcoat. In the course of their struggle the coat was taken off one man and was donned by the other.
That suggests what has happened in the past century and a half in the use of the words "liberal" and "conservative."
The position of the individual who has called himself a conservative has greatly, almost diametrically, changed from what it was at the end of the 18th Century in England and in many European countries in the 19th Century.
It meant their adherence to a status quo which generally was government authority concentrated at the center, usually in a king or a person of royal status. In the 18th Century and during part of the 19th Century the opposition to the conservative or Tory Party was the Whig Party.
The Whigs became the liberals under Gladstone. Disraeli was the first leader of the modern Conservative Party. It supported the crown but added a large measure of social reform to its program.
*
The conservative now might well keep this transformation in mind. His true course is to oppose centralization of power in Washington and to uphold the power and responsibility of the states, the local governments and the individual.
For the United States can never become Socialist unless it is socialized at the federal level.
Opposition to the Communist conspiracy is something to which all Americans, be they conservative, "liberal" or Socialist, should be dedicated. But mere opposition to communism does not make a person a legitimate conservative.
This is the point at which the John Birch Society, whose sole purpose seems to be to cast a suspicion upon all Americans who do not limit their concern to fighting the Communist conspiracy, does not represent genuine conservatism.
*
It should be remembered also that the Hitler regime built a National Socialist dictatorship upon its opposition to the Communist dictatorship.
True conservatism, which is gaining more and more favor in the nation, must make clear that it is not adopting the very means which in the long run will end in the sacrifice of human liberty.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.