Foreign Aid: A Case History
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The vast size of the federal establishment, the incapacity of members of Congress to master the many problems brought to them by the Executive, and the sensational instances of maladministration which become generally known often lead to indiscriminate rejection of good programs. Nothing illustrates this danger more than the growing opposition to foreign aid—all foreign aid.
There have been, in many countries, quite successful and beneficial operations in American aid. There have also been incredible instances of incompetence and failure. And so when President Kennedy asks for another big commitment, even when backed by his predecessor, there are not only demands that some evidence of administrative reform be produced, but a growing disposition to terminate the whole program.
★
Nothing illustrates the defects of the operations of the International Cooperation Administration better than its record in Iran. The British, who have dealt with such nations for as many generations as we have years, are very much alive to our failure.
The London Times recently noted this in two articles which included the suggestion that “the United States, whose ward Iran is, has in any case to ponder now all the more closely what her policy toward Iran should be.
“Hitherto Iran has demonstrated that the more the Americans try to help the less they often achieve. Judging by Iran’s internal circumstances, the United States—instead of giving or lending the Iranians more money for the present, might find it more beneficial if she cut off aid for a year.”
Congress is not unaware of what has been going on in the land once ruled by Darius and Xerxes. For the comptroller general, who follows and reports on the money committed by Congress to the Executive Department, has sent to the speaker an account of Iranian aid which should cause an
Moley
American taxpayer to clutch his heart with one hand and his purse with the other. I select one item from this sorry collection as an example.
It is a fact which might be duly noted that our imposing edifice to international brotherhood, the United Nations, is built upon land on the East River formerly occupied by a slaughterhouse. Perhaps inspired by this example of spears bent into plowshares, the ICA decided to help the Iranian government to have a decent slaughterhouse in Teheran.
★
That was in 1952, when $15,000 was committed to buy equipment for a structure erected by the Iranian government. In the years that followed more money was set aside for expansion, amounting to $576,000 in dollars and $106,000 in Iranian rials. In addition, ICA approved a loan of $290,000 toward construction costs.
Shortly after 1952, when the original equipment had been installed, a technician of the “mission” of the ICA reported that the building was unsanitary and that it should not be used. Nevertheless, it was put in operation, and $142,000 was obligated to finance additional improvements.
Then there was an inspection by a U.S. “nutrition team,” which reported that the meat produced was unfit for human consumption. But the ICA continued the project and provided financing for offshore procurement of refrigeration. The Iranian government was to contribute to the construction of a building for the new equipment.
★
Then a German consultant was hired to develop general plans, which should have been ready before the initial help was provided. The German recommended that an engineering firm be employed to make plans and specifications for a new building and equipment. The ICA allocated $150,000 for this expense out of the original allocation. After a delay of 27 months, an American engineering firm was hired.
Then more years passed, until in mid-1959 the plans were ready. Meanwhile, of course, there had been certain de-obligations, re-obligations, and sub-obligations of the proposed funds.
And, finally, a suitable Iranian-British contractor was found to do the construction. Work began in 1960. Present progress was not reported by the comptroller general.
Thus, four nations were occupied at various times with this project over the years. That certainly is “international cooperation.” It ought to be quite a slaughterhouse with such a distinguished history.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.