Unfair Laws on Voter Eligibility
A host of Americans, estimated by some to number a few millions, found themselves denied the right to vote for President because of the antiquated residence requirements of many of our states.
Their argument was simple and convincing. They made no claim to vote for sheriffs or even governors in the states into which they had recently moved. There was some sense in that denial, because they were unfamiliar with the conditions and problems of their new localities.
But in the vote for the President and Vice President of the United States, they, like anybody else, were familiar with the men and the issues. As Americans they felt they had a basic right to share in the determination of how their country should be governed.
Residence laws created by most states make no distinction between voting for local and state officers and for the President and Vice President.
Thirty-five states require one full year of residence for all voting. Three states require two years. And 12 states require six months. In 47 states there is no distinction between voting for state and local officers and for Presidential electors.
Under the Constitution, the states have exclusive power to determine how Presidential electors shall be chosen. The language is this: "Each state shall appoint, in such manner as the legislature thereof may direct, a number of electors..."
A mere federal law to impose different qualifications for voting for Presidential electors would thus be very doubtful constitutionally. Therefore, a constitutional amendment should be in order.
Rep. Elford Cederberg of Michigan has introduced such a constitutional amendment which will no doubt have considerable attention in the current session.
His proposed amendment would permit qualified voters newly arrived in a state to vote for Presidential electors and for senators and representatives in Congress after registration and after presenting evidence of former qualification to vote in the previous state of residence.
Whether the Cederberg amendment reaches an affirmative two-thirds vote or not, it will be well for Congress to consider some means of remedying a situation which will to an increasing extent bar American citizens from expressing a choice for President.
Under modern economic conditions, almost every corporation of any size does interstate business. Employees are shuffled about constantly, especially those at the executive level, and technicians and salesmen.
Meanwhile, regardless of whatever action Congress may take on such an amendment, there is need for the state legislatures in session this year to reform this aspect of their election laws.