Sen. Paul Douglas, whose abiding concern is to get federal help for what he calls depressed areas, has made his report to President Kennedy. The President warmly commended the senator's plan and said that it would have "strong administration support." However, there will be many a searching question raised before the President has a chance to add his signature to a bill. The Douglas plan concerns areas allegedly afflicted with all sorts of distress. There are some where the mines have closed down, others where family farms are too small to provide a family living, others where unemployment benefits have ceased and where relief measures are inadequate. But while the causes of depression in such widely different areas are of many kinds, the Douglas remedy would be the same everywhere—more money from the federal government.
★
For the most part, such distress is a problem of individuals rather than areas. There can be no doubt that many individuals and families are in need. But the mind of a statist like Douglas never approaches such problems on an individual basis. He and others who lean toward socialism always consider people as units in a group or locality. In earlier times, the cure for need was migration. Those were more exacting times with, perhaps, a hardier breed of Americans. To enable men and their families to move to greener fields, there is room for reasonable help from government in temporary relief, aid in transportation, and retraining in skills. New energy and self-respect can be gained that way. Another legitimate method is to stimulate revival in some depressed areas by meeting problems of transportation of goods. For example, the Japanese steel industries prefer West Virginia coal. But the cost of getting it from the mines to Japanese furnaces is very high. Coal carriers are being built in Japanese shipyards. The coal is in West Virginia with the machinery and the labor to get it out. The American railroads need more business. A favorable place to attack the problem is in the provision of some means of helping to transport the coal to the coast. Another place to attack the problem is to ease the relocation of workers. Here the labor unions pursue a policy of resisting the migration of workers into new areas. Labor leaders would much prefer to keep workers where they are and avoid competition for jobs where there are jobs to be had.
★
The idea, so prominent in the Douglas plan, of giving money to industries to induce them to move plants into the depressed areas meets severe practical problems. How do you induce a normally prosperous industry to move into a blighted area? Who will pay the cost of relocating an industry? Such industries already have their full complement of workers where they are. Will Douglas be willing to guarantee profits for the business that is moved? And if so, who will determine the fairness of the profit to be provided? The full answers must ultimately come to a large measure of government control of such industries. The real name for that is socialism. This cannot deter Paul Douglas, because before he became a political leader he was in his philosophy a socialist. Perhaps the embers of that glowing fire of his youth are still bright.