Steel Index Now Up to Date
During the 1960 campaign for the Presidency, much was made of the fact that the steel industry was operating at one-half its capacity. The inference was that this meant a depressed economy, unemployment and general distress.
But there is no more reason to draw such inferences from capacity figures than there is to blame the government for building so many ships for war that in peacetime some of them are put in mothballs. The extra capacity of the steel industry is a reserve to be used in a war or other crisis.
*
To use that capacity up to, say, 80 or 85% would be economically indefensible. When such a high point of production is reached, extra shifts are required, much overtime is necessary, and the normal or routine maintenance of the furnaces becomes extremely costly. Under normal conditions, a furnace can be shut down, allowed to cool, and then rebricked. But when operations are at anything like full capacity, special contractors must be called in to tear out the interiors of furnaces while they are still glowing hot. Under trying conditions, they must
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
work around the clock to get the old firebrick out and the new in. This is very costly.
The changing technology of the steel industry has resulted, at the beginning of this year, in a change in the reporting of production.
Under the old method of reporting, the comparison was with the years 1947-49. The reports used in political speeches in the campaign were based on that comparison. Now the production index for comparison will be the years 1957-1959.
There are sound and wholly non-political reasons for this change. As the years passed between 1947-1949 and the present, there were great advances in technology. Thus, the comparative figures came to be more and more inaccurate. The actual production capacity now cannot be accurately computed by any authority.
*
There are many kinds of furnaces and equipment, and new methods of production, particularly in the use of oxygen. There has also been a considerable investment in plants to keep up with new methods of production. The old figures included many out-
dated plants which have been passing into obsolescence.
There are steelworkers who are unemployed. But in the greatest steel manufacturing center in the world—the Chicago-Gary complex—the figures now show that overall employment is up, and unemployment is down. Later this year the Chicago-Gary area will increase production from 50% to 60%. This 10% increase will absorb every out-of-work steel man.
★
But even at 50% of capacity, production in that area in 1960 was greater than in 1958 and 1959, when the mills were running closer to capacity. What is important in measuring activity in the steel industry is total tons produced, not the percentage of capacity utilized. With new technology, the industry’s ability to produce more steel with less utilization of capacity becomes more and more pronounced.
That is something which should be kept in mind in all measurements of industrial production. Progress lies in producing more with less effort. Progress cannot be attained by some government device to use all the capacity of production all the time.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.