No Action Has Been Taken Yet
on America's Voteless Millions
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Shortly after the 1960
election I wrote and published two articles pointing out the grave injustice suffered by 8 million voters who wanted to vote but were barred by the unreasonable election laws of the states.
In response to those articles. I had more letters from readers than I had received on any one subject in years.
Now, five months later, I doubt whether I shall get half a dozen letters on the subject. Why? Because the indignation of Americans about an injustice has a way of cooling off very fast. But little or nothing has been done to remedy the situation, and in 1962 and 1964 the same deplorable situation will prevail.
Sen. Keating of New York has not forgotten, and in a speech on the Senate floor on May 15 he stated the problem very well and outlined the various ways in which a solution might be found.
*
What makes it so difficult is that the residence requirements in the states vary so greatly. Also, many states have frozen the residence requirements into their constitutions, and the possibility of federal action to secure uniformity is doubtful because of the Constitution of the United States.
To save space, I shall limit my comments to the qualifications for voting for President of the United States.
In most states, eligibility for voting for Presidential electors is the same as that for electing the lowest ranking local officers.
A few states have made a distinction, waiving all or part of the legal residence requirements for voting for Presidential electors.
Those states are Wisconsin, California, Missouri, Ohio and Oregon.
There are reasons, and good ones, for requiring some term of residence for voting for local officers because in making a choice among such candidates a voter should have some familiarity with local conditions. But this rule has no relevance to voting for President.
One way to bring the matter to attention and possibly early solution before the 1964 election would be an amendment to the U.S. Constitution.
This would be necessary because the Constitution now says, "Each state shall appoint, in such manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a number of electors."
*
It has been suggested by a report to the Governors' Conference that state Legislatures might under this constitutional provision override the provisions of their own constitutions and fix a shorter residence requirement for Presidential electors. But some governors object to that.
As things stand, the hope is that a number of the larger and more progressive states might take advantage of the power in their Legislatures either to override their own constitutions or, in the absence of such constitutional provisions, fix a short term of residence-say six weeks-for voting for Presidential electors.
*
Clearly, a great majority of the 8 million people now denied their right to vote for President are not old-style "floaters," but business executives, educators, skilled workmen, and others who are constantly being shifted from one state or community to another.
One company alone which does a national business estimates that 6% of its executive personnel were disfranchised in 1960-because business changes required changes of residence.
Public opinion, expressed through its articulate spokesmen, should demand action on this injustice before another Presidential election. Let's get after our members of Congress, our members of Legislatures, and our state officials.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.