Military Weakness Is
a Peril of Neutrality
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In Japan, where the critical issues in Southeast Asia are more keenly felt than in the United States or the Soviet Union, the press and the government seem generally united in supporting the stand of the United States regarding Laos rather than that of the USSR.
This is unusual because the majority of the press is generally critical of the government in power.
Both hold the Soviet Union responsible for the trouble in Laos and insist that any solution must include the stopping of aid from Russia to the Communist rebels.
Both say a good deal about the virtues of neutrality for Laos.
But the Japanese, as well as the Americans, seem to have a very foggy view as to the meaning of true and durable neutrality.
In Japan this misunderstanding is more dangerous because when the concept is applied to Japan it is likely to imply that the United States should withdraw its military forces from the country and also that Japan should not build up its own military forces for its own protection.
Thus the danger of unarmed, defenseless neutrality grows in many countries, including Britain and Japan. And to a large degree those who talk about neutrality seem willing to accept neutrality in such countries as Laos as a state of utter weakness.
This concept fits perfectly with the policies of the Kremlin. And since the Soviet Union has shown no disposition to respect the neutrality of a country, it merely ceases to give military assistance but turns loose its power-ful agencies of subversion and confusion so necessary to a successful civil revolt.
Only in the cases of Switzerland and Portugal has the Soviet been disposed to keep hands off completely. But both Switzerland and Portugal have strong military defenses.
And unfortunately the United States has incurred the ill will of the Portuguese government by its stand on Angola.
A few conservative members of Japan’s Diet are the exceptions to the general idea of neutrality. They realize that the only terms under which the safety of Japan can be assured is that, preliminary to the withdrawal of American forces, Japan should build up its military potential.
Since there will be needed far more proof than we have now that in any agreement with the Soviet Union, subversion as well as military assistance, will be discontinued, the United States may have to continue supplying military potential. But such military aid to countries which aim at neutrality should be designed to help and teach the countries involved to provide the potential within themselves to defend their independence.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.