Ghost of Gen. Sherman
Returns to California
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The minds of most politicians are eerie attics haunted by illogical and nonsensical superstitions.
I illustrate by portraying the horns of a dilemma presented to Richard Nixon by some of his friends and numerous enemies.
Find consistency in them, if you can: "He must run for governor to make himself available for a Presidential nomination in 1964." And: "A governor elected in 1962 must serve as such for four years."
The first of these propositions has been and is questionable in Nixon's case. The second is a superstition largely created and believed in by politicians.
This question arose in 1942 when Thomas E. Dewey said, in accepting the nomination for governor of New York: "For my part, let me say right now that I shall devote the next four years to the service of the people of New York."
That has a large escape hatch through which the governor emerged without a scratch and without meeting criticism.
In January, 1944, when the Dewey bandwagon was rolling along, I asked Gov. Dewey to explain the "inconsistency."
He called attention to the words "for my part" and then approved the following explanation, which I wrote in a magazine article:
"Even if he has pledged his service to the state of New York, as Dewey has done, the greater authority of the nation can break such a pledge. In short, the nation overrules the state and it also overrules Mr. Dewey, the servant of the state."
Dewey sought the nomination openly and won it over opposition. I don't believe his course lost him a single vote in New York.
Gov. Rockefeller has said, with respect to the bearing of his own candidacy for governor on the Presidential nomination in 1964: "I fundamentally don't believe in that kind of pledge."
That makes a lot of sense. And I believe most voters also believe it makes sense.
After all, John F. Kennedy in 1960 had four more years to serve Massachusetts as its senator. But the people of his state voted for him as a Presidential candidate.
Nixon's statement differed materially from that of Dewey in 1942. He made it perfectly clear that he would not in any way seek the 1964 nomination.
Dewey did not say that, and he did seek the nomination. Nixon's statement should be accepted by the people of California without further qualification. For, as I know them well, they are just as full of common sense as voters in New York and Massachusetts.
But not satisfied with Nixon's plain English, inquiring reporters at the Nixon press conference in Los Angeles summoned from its grave the ghost of Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman. No doubt that "perturbed spirit" will be wailing down the valleys and over the mountains of the Golden State for two or three years to come. Unless we return it to its cerement here and now!
The following facts should do just that:
In 1884 Gen. Sherman was 65 years old and retired from the Army. James G. Blaine, the logical candidate, was reluctant to run because he believed he could not carry New York. He asked Sherman to take the nomination. Sherman replied as follows:
"I will not, in any event, entertain or accept a nomination. I would account myself a fool, a madman, an ass, to embark anew, at 65 years of age, in a career that at any moment may be tempest-tossed by the perfidy, the defalcation, the dishonesty or neglect of one of a 100,000 subordinates utterly unknown to the President of the United States, not to say the eternal worriment of a vast horde of impecunious friends and old military subordinates."
Later Sherman nailed the issue by a telegram to the convention saying: "If I am nominated I will not accept, and will not serve if elected."
The decisive differences are that Sherman was 65, he had no experience in civil government, and the time was the eve of the convention and not three years before. And he had only a few years to live.
Also, his brother John was a candidate that year and in 1880.
The nation's interests would be poorly served to limit the choice of a Presidential candidate to those in office whose terms expire in 1964 or to fellows named Joe who have no office at all.
The issue in California is Nixon or Brown, not Gen. Sherman.
That should be enough to concern the people of that fine, big, and highly literate state.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.