Kennedy's 'People Machine' Has
Been Tried Out Before and Failed
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Something like the hysteria displayed by teenagers when Elvis Presley discovered that there was money in oscillating his torso has possessed some professors of social science.
It is their belief that the behavior of human beings can reliably be predicted by personality tests, by the compilation of material facts and possessions, by a study of environment, and other measurable tests. Of course, electronic computers are used in the process, and the whole rigmarole is masked under the name "science."
We have read in Harper's Magazine about the "people-machine" employed by Mr. Kennedy to determine which appeals would get him the most votes. On election night we saw the figures amassed by the computers which determined how the country was going before people got around to voting.
This sort of research is approaching what some enthusiasts call a scientific "breakthrough," presumably similar in importance to the discoveries of Newton and Darwin.
I am sure, however, the "breakthrough" will be like that of the two prisoners in the story. They burrowed a hole in the ground, seeking freedom, but to their consternation found that their cave opened into another part of the prison.
For after all the foundation and university money is spent and all the books are printed, these zealots will find themselves where they were --with all their prejudices intact, and the human animal still inscrutable, scoffing at their efforts.
A good example of the new "scientism" is in the researches of Herbert McClosky, political science professor of the University of California. His "clinical findings," and his methods were described in the San Francisco Chronicle by its science editor, David Perlman. It is evident from his report that Perlman himself, accustomed to interviewing real scientists, is doubtful about the McClosky findings.
★
The McClosky labors are at Berkeley's Survey Research Center. From these, according to the Perlman article, the findings are:
"Republican political leaders, more often than Democrats, are out of step with their own party's voters. Political conservatives, far more often than liberals, are ridden with hostility, rigidity, bewilderment and even paranoid tendencies."
He concludes, of course, that "conservatism is not the preferred doctrine of the intellectually elite." That, of course, permits the professor to define his own elite.
Also, McClosky is quoted as saying that conservative beliefs are found most frequently among the uninformed, the poorly educated, and so far as we can determine the less intelligent. That should teach a lesson to the 34 million people who preferred Nixon to Kennedy.
★
It should also set Sen. Goldwater right, if he hopes to attract an intelligent and educated following. Perhaps it puts us all in our place, if we want to avoid incarceration in a home for paranoiacs.
But the sorcerer's apprentices are not so wise. They know how to turn on the water but cannot stop the flood. And now even politicians are wetting their feet.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.