It has been generally
understood that the President will nominate as ambassador to Japan, to replace Douglas MacArthur II, Dr. Edwin O. Reischauer. He is professor of Japanese at Harvard and director of the Center for East Asian Studies. He has spent a great deal of time in Japan, has many friends there among the educated elite and has written books on the Orient. He is married to a Japanese lady of aristocratic family.
It has been pointed out that he has been an advocate of the recognition by the United States of the Red Chinese government. Also, in the magazine Foreign Affairs he has sharply criticized former Ambassador MacArthur for having made "a shocking misestimate" of the riots in Japan which prevented President Eisenhower's visit in 1959.
In the Japan Quarterly for January-March, 1961—a journal published in Tokyo—he has elaborated his estimate of the cause of the riotous disturbances which interrupted the normal operations of representative government in Japan and were a sorry blow to our relations with Japan.
In that article he said that the American acceptance of the idea that the riots were Communist-inspired "seems absurd to those thousands of Japanese who participated in the demonstrations."
Then he accepts this point of view of the Japanese "who participated in the demonstrations" by concluding that the American view of Communist inspiration was "mistaken."
This is hardly a judicial manner, for an individual who is supposed to be qualified as an ambassador, to draw a conclusion in so important a matter.
Let us see what the opinion of the Japanese government was concerning the origins of the riots. And note, also, that that government took its case to the voters of Japan last November and received an overwhelming vote of confidence.
On a visit to Japan in 1958 I spent hours with the security police of Japan and they told me, with clear evidence to support them, that through the radical political and labor elements in Japan, Peiping was pouring money into Japan to create just such demonstrations against the democratically-elected government.
The inability of the security police to prevent the riots was due not to their lack of information concerning the causes, but to the laws of Japan imposed under our occupation which rendered the police helpless in such situations.
The fact of Communist inspiration has been affirmed by young Japanese who themselves participated in the riots and later regretted their actions.
It is true that Prof. Reischauer goes on in his article in the Japan Quarterly gently to remind the extremists that theirs is not the true way of democracy.
But the tone in which he reminds them of this fact is that of so many soft-headed Americans who see every left-wing outbreak abroad as the mistaken but rather innocent reaction to injustice by those in power. This sort of gentle admonition merely excites those to whom it is addressed to more violent convictions that they are on the side of the angels.
Presumably, Prof. Reischauer should be reminded by the administration of which he will probably be a part that the recognition of Red China by the United States and admission to the United Nations cannot be accomplished by a mere scratch of the Presidential pen.
A solemn treaty is involved, as well as the charter of the United Nations. In that document, to which we are attached by the treaty procedure, it is provided that the Republic of China shall be a member of the Security Council.
That means the government presently established in Formosa. As a member of the Security Council, it has a veto as well as the United States and the Soviet Union. To change the charter to oust the Republic of China would involve a two-thirds majority in the U.S. Senate.
It would be unfortunate to have as ambassador to a country which means so much to our security in the Far East a man who holds views so contrary to established American policy.