School Aid: Hypocrisy and Fraud
In the name of promoting the moral and intellectual interests of the nation's children, the Senate has passed and the House may pass an aid-to-education bill which embodies within itself hypocrisy and fraud.
This is not strange. Congress is an agent of government, and nothing has been so well established in history as the essential immorality of governments. This applies to autocracies and democracies alike, monarchies and republics, congresses and kingdoms.
The makers of the Constitution knew this lack of moral fiber in governments and government agencies. That is why they placed so many restraints upon the agencies of the federal government they created.
★
The aid-to-education bill sponsored by President Kennedy and passed by the Senate contains this promise to the states and local school systems:
"No department, agency, officer or employee of the United States shall exercise any direction, supervision or control over the policy determination, personnel, curriculum, program of instruction or the administration of any school system."
This declaration is in Section 103 of the bill which passed the Senate.
But Section 106 of the bill says that states cannot reduce state and local school expenditures and, in fact, must keep up with the average annual rate of increase in the national effort in order to get their full allotment.
And who is to have the power to enforce this provision in Section 106? The U.S. commissioner of education, whose determination shall be conclusive.
This simply means that total school revenues within each state, exclusive of money returned (given) to the states by the federal government, must be increased every year whether the money is needed or not.
Now let us try to square this with the statement by Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare Abraham Ribicoff that "the cost of educating our children has become economically indigestible so far as state and local school districts are concerned."
That this statement is not true can be proved by the very state which twice elected Ribicoff governor. It can be proved in any other state which can be mentioned. It has been proved in the experience of the past five years, because the states have progressively raised more and more billions for their schools.
But let us look at the bill and the Ribicoff statement from another angle. If his statement is true, then the bill is demanding what the states cannot do.
And also let this fact be considered: Because of the great effort made by the states and the school districts to keep up with the increase in enrollment during the 1950s, their contribution to education was abnormal.
In the 1960s, when the rate of increase in the public school enrollment will be considerably lower, the states and districts must, if they are to participate in the federal handouts, continue to raise this abnormal amount of money each year.
For example, school districts of Oklahoma voted $155 million in school bonds, mostly for school construction. It may well be that building needs there will drop in the near future. But under the bill they will have not only to raise the same amount of money but keep up with the amount of federal grants.
It is true that the great brains which created this legislation realized that when Uncle Sam comes in with money, states will refuse to vote the money themselves. This will be true in any event. But since said brains believe that everything can be done by passing a law, they inserted the provision in Section 106 cited above. In so doing, they have provided a built-in escalator by which to increase the burden to the states and school districts for the indefinite future.
The said brains have also provided within the bill itself a provision which makes of the "no control" promise a fraud and a delusion.