Should Local Governments Be
Returning to the 2-Party System?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The city of Hartford, Ct.,
is about to revise its charter and abandon its system of non-partisan election of a council with an appointive city manager. The only other city in that state with a nonpartisan government is voting in April on a proposal to return to the two-party system.
This drift away from non-partisanship has been notable in many cities over the past few years. Nearly 40 years ago the city of Cleveland adopted a charter with all the fancy frills, including non-partisan elections, proportional representation and a city manager.
After a few years, it returned to two-party government, with an elected mayor and chief executive. The quality of its elective mayors is shown by the fact that two of them have become respected U.S. senators, and one, Harold Burton, moved up to the Supreme Court of the United States.
★
Non-partisan elections came largely because of the sins of the political parties in the years just before and after the turn of the century. Instead of strengthening and cleaning up parties, an enraged public proceeded to emasculate them. Party responsibility was all but destroyed, with incalculable consequences.
I well remember the arguments advanced in the cities for non-partisan elections. It was asserted that the affairs of city housekeeping had nothing to do with national problems such as the tariff, federal taxation, and the like. That argument overlooked the fact that, since the cities were growing and would dominate many state elections, a weakness in the parties in the cities would weaken the national parties, too.
The 1960 election was a striking manifestation of the consequences of the strength and weakness of parties. In Ohio, where there is a capable Republican Party, Nixon won. In New York, Pennsylvania and Illinois, big, strong city Democratic organizations won for Kennedy.
There were reasons for the blighting of the hopes of the idealists who promoted the weakening of the parties. Reform in this, as in many other instances, asked too much of the average citizen.
Denied the rallying point of a party, the citizen turned to other loyalties — religion, nationality, and color. Voting became bloc voting, with minorities dominant. A national party must, if it is to survive, encompass all groups and stand for the general interest and welfare. Minority domination results in the anarchy of a multi-party system.
★
The stark fact is that the growth of the two national parties has been far below the growth of the number of eligible voters. In 1956 the Democratic Party polled fewer votes than it did in 1940. But since the Democratic Party has had the support of the political organizations of the labor unions, it has maintained the show of strength.
To an increasing degree the big cities and the suburbs around them will dominate political life in the future. Therefore, it is of supreme importance in the national interest to have vital party organizations.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.