Eyebrows Raised on
1963 Budget Forecast
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
There are raised eyebrows from coast to coast at President Kennedy's prediction of a balanced budget in the fiscal year ending in June, 1963, in the light of a predicted $6.8 billion deficit in June, 1962.
Those who doubt the prediction of a balanced budget point to the certainty of little or no drop in federal expenditures. For, they say, with the facts on their side, the obligations already incurred for continuing programs plus new schemes which may be enacted in 1962 foreclose any relief from spending.
*
The administration apologists, on the other hand, cling to the idea, so urgently presented in the Kennedy campaign speeches last year, that a large jump in the Gross National Product will provide more to tax.
Both of these positions have a modicum of truth on their side, but neither takes account of what lies at the root of this contrast between a pessimistic outlook for this year and such optimistic expectations next year.
The expected rise in government revenues with the same tax rates cannot be achieved by a relatively small increase in the GNP. For the claim that the rise in that figure—from the average of the Eisenhower years to something like 5%—can come from increased federal spending is spurious.
*
The increase in revenues comes from another factor, which is only now coming to be recognized by the Bureau of the Budget. It arises from the nature of the progressive rates in the income tax.
With business activity rising at only a small rate, there will be a relatively larger rise in federal revenues. Some will come from the increased profits of corporations, which are generally taxable at 52%. More will come, however, from individual income taxes.
In the taxing of individual incomes, a small rise in business activity will produce not a straight line of increase commensurate with the rise in the GNP, but a sharply rising curve. People make a little more, but the federal government takes a relatively larger bite.
*
Thus, if you are a married man now making a personal income which puts your top bracket at, say, 30%, an increase in income will put you into the brackets of 34 or 38 or 43%. This explains why a sizable jump in federal revenues is anticipated by the President and his Budget Bureau in fiscal 1963.
Back in the Truman administration, this factor showed itself in a most sensational way. There were years then when the estimate in income in the President's budget in January had to be raised three or four times in the succeeding months. At that time it was apparent that the Budget Bureau failed to calculate the larger government take as incomes rose only at a mild rate.
Now, apparently, that factor is taken into consideration. Hence the President's optimism.
*
But the whole calculation is based upon increased business and on consumers' confidence. And that will depend almost entirely on what the Kennedy administration is able to accomplish in convincing investors that it is not really anti-business.
The members of the Cabinet who have been sent over the country to make speeches seem to have been instructed to pipe down on all anti-business talk. But many, if not most businessmen believe that this administration is really not friendly to business management.
A real test of sincerity will come when Atty. Gen. Robert Kennedy makes a scheduled speech before the New York Economic Club in December. In the crucial half hour allotted to that young man, there will be the possibility of sustaining and improving business confidence or of dashing much of the present hope for better times next year.
*
What the secretaries of this or that may say in their present round of speeches will be taken with great reservations. But not only is the attorney general the President's brother and closest collaborator, but his Department of Justice has the power to determine whether business will or will not have the freedom essential to greater activity in years to come. Robert's words and actions will be the test of the President's concern about business confidence. Close watchers of economic trends, both in the United States and in Europe, are disposed to wait and see.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.