Nixon Suffering Fate
of Other Native Sons
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Three weeks of observing the primary contest for the governorship of California, talking with many people on all sides, and assiduously reading the newspapers have brought home a melancholy reflection which I have felt many times before in many other states.

There is a capricious element in an electorate which easily discounts the services of a native son whose responsibilities have carried him, over a period of years, away from close contact with the home folks.

There are many examples of this forgetfulness and this limited concern with larger horizons.

A few years ago, Oregon had a most useful and influential U.S. senator named Guy Cordon. No member of the Senate knew so well and served more assiduously the concerns of the Western States and especially the Northwest.

Moreover, those interests were in a very large degree dependent upon what was happening in Washington.

But in the years before the 1954 election, an incredibly active couple named Neuberger had saturated the state with written and spoken material.

Cordon in that critical year was detained by vital business in the Senate until late September.

When he returned, his cause was hopeless. Oregon ignored long and faithful service. The Neubergers succeeded him in the Senate.

In 1946 Robert M. La Follette Jr. was up for reelection in Wisconsin. He and his father had served in the U.S. Senate for almost a generation. They had made the state famous in American politics.

A little-known judge named Joseph McCarthy opposed La Follette and won.

In 1958 Ohio rejected John Bricker, despite his long and distinguished service in the state as attorney general and governor and in the nation as a candidate for vice president and as senator for 12 years. He ran second to a run-of-the-mill politician.

In the same year, William F. Knowland, who had risen in the Senate to the leadership of his party, decided to come home to California and run for governor. He was swept under by an immense majority.

And now Richard Nixon is subjected to the most bitter attacks which he has suffered in his entire stormy career—attacks by the very people who once elected him to Congress and the Senate and were proud to see him promoted to the Vice Presidency.

There are classical examples of this caprice of voters. In 1945 after the war was won, Winston Churchill and his party faced the British electorate in a general election. He had guided Britain through a victorious war. He was England’s most famous son.

But he had offered his countrymen nothing but blood, sweat, and tears in the war; and, for the peace which followed, self-denial and difficult reconstruction.

The Socialists promised pic-in-the-sky.

And Churchill and his party suffered overwhelming rejection.

Six years later, the British people found that they had embraced an illusion and more austerity and restored Churchill and his party.

Still more in the classical tradition was the way of Bristol in 1780 with a man around whose statue there now eddies the busy life of that English industrial center. Bristol bears the melancholy distinction of having rejected Edmund Burke as its representative in Parliament.

When Burke returned to Bristol in that famous year he was a vindicated prophet and the most eloquent voice in the nation.

His thundering warning in 1775 that England should not coerce the American colonies was ignored, but in 1780 the British forces in America were losing the war. The people of Bristol complained that he had not cozened them with personal attentions.

Burke declined to offer himself in the election, and his letter “rejecting the poll” remains a literary and political classic today. In it he said, “I could not court you and serve you, too.”

Many Californians whom I respect and count as my friends would scoff at these parallels. But the comparisons differ only in degree.

The lesson is the same and it is unshakable. There is embedded in so many of us the weakness that explains capricious electorates.

What a public servant does for us a thousand or more miles from home is regarded as not relative to our welfare. That is true even when, as in some of these instances, the place where that servant works is where our income is taxed and our business is dominated.

The demagogue next door is heard, while the statesman who is absent is forgotten. Pride in a successful son is overshadowed by the pique of neglect.

I believe that this weakness can be overcome in this primary and in the election that follows. But that is for Californians to determine.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.