Architects of the Extreme Left
Offer a Blueprint for Surrender
BY RAYMOND MOLEY.
Over the past year, Liberals generally and liberal Democrats in particular have made a public relations killing by spreading the implication that the extremists in the John Birch Society and its leader, Robert Welch, represented conservatism generally and the Republican Party specifically.
This has been despite the vigorous and early repudiation of such extremism by former President Eisenhower and former Vice President Nixon and by leading conservatives more recently. Such extremism is neither conservative nor Republican.
Now that monkey on the back of the right has a mate, considerably larger, squatting on the shoulders of liberalism generally and the Democratic Party specifically.
*
There has appeared a volume entitled, "The Liberal Papers." We are told in the introduction by James Roosevelt that this is the outgrowth of the efforts of "a group of fellow congressional colleagues during the 86th Congress, 1959-1960."
These statesmen, says Roosevelt, were apprehensive of what he calls "the treacherous course" of foreign policy at that time.
This, of course, means that the Eisenhower administration was pursuing a "treacherous course."
These congressmen, apparently unable to supply an alternative out of their own heads, resorted to the familiar device of getting a group of "intellectuals" to provide some essays for them.
It has now been shown that the "group" to which Roosevelt refers consisted of 12 Democratic members of the House of Representatives who were very active in the project. It is charged by Republican senators that there were 23 other Democratic members of the House who were "closer" to the project and that among these was Chester Bowles.
Of the original 12, five were defeated in 1960, and three of these are now employed in the Kennedy administration.
The "papers" for which these congressmen are the sponsors were written by 12 individuals whose names are familiar among the writers and pamphleteers who deal with foreign affairs.
The following is a summary of positions taken by these writers:
1—West Berlin is of no value "except as a moral liability" of the Western powers. Presumably the "moral liability" can be abandoned. East Germany would be recognized. The Polish Rapacki plan should be used, and both Germanys should be neutralized militarily.
*
2—NATO should be disestablished, leaving nothing but an Atlantic alliance of Britain, Canada and the United States. Thus all of continental Europe should be left to the caprice of the Soviet Union.
3—Presumably this would mean the withdrawal of our forces from all of continental Europe.
4—At home we should abandon "the half-baked arrangement called civil defense."
5—We should unilaterally abandon the idea of nuclear tests.
6—We should let Russia "plug in" on our radar warning system. Thus the Soviet Union would be allowed to warn itself against any attack by the United States.
*
7—We should "liberalize" our trade policy with Russia.
8—The idea that we can avoid war with the Communist world by preparing for it is "irrational."
9—There should be recognition by the United States and admission to the United Nations of "both Germanys, both Koreas, Communist China and both Viet-Nams. Incorporate Quemoy and Matsu into the China mainland."
These are the recommendations of Quincy Wright, professor emeritus of international law at the University of Chicago and the University of Virginia.
The whole thing is a craven design for surrender.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.