The opposition to President Kennedy's liberal policies will not fail in 1964 because of lack of organized opposition groups. Two new ones recently appeared.
One is called BIPAC, Business and Industry Political Action Committee, which will mobilize business and industrial leaders to aid conservative candidates for Congress.
The other is the Critical Issues Council, composed for the most part of former aides and colleagues of President Eisenhower, who will issue reports on special issues.
★
BIPAC fills a long-neglected need. Organized labor has had its COPE for years and has been most effective in helping to elect members of the Senate and House.
In fact, it is so well organized and financed that the official Democratic Party has largely turned over that part of its operation to the labor unions' political agency.
While businessmen have keenly felt the impact of Mr. Kennedy's liberal policies, they have been unable to resist at the polls. They have made contributions to candidates at the local level and have spent large sums in maintaining representatives in Washington, but there has been no united effort by them.
While the business community has almost a monopoly of the managerial talent of the nation, it has been unable or unwilling to mobilize its genius for organization in politics. In part this neglect is due to the reluctance of business to engage in partisan politics.
In part, it is due to the concept, firmly held by so many business leaders, that a businessman makes a poor politician.
Both of these deterrents are ill-conceived. For in many instances the officers of companies have openly participated in politics without losing customers. And several businessmen have been successful when they consented to run for office.
Arthur (Red) Motley of Parade Publications has labored for years to stimulate the interest of businessmen in politics—first as chairman of a committee of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and then as president of that body. Owing to his labors, the chamber developed courses in practical politics which have been given in hundreds of companies and communities to thousands of participants.
The idea embodied in BIPAC to concentrate mainly on campaigns for the House of Representatives is entirely practical.
The organization is bipartisan because there are plenty of sound and conservative Democrats as well as Republicans who need help in their districts. And to concentrate on practical organization, without taking positions on presidential candidates or writing platforms for the parties, BIPAC will not antagonize the regular party organizations.
★
The Critical Issues Council is a new development in the Republican Citizens Committee, which was created at the Gettysburg farm of Gen. Eisenhower in 1962. The original purpose of the committee was most commendable, for it was designed to set up auxiliary groups in urban centers and states to help and not compete with the regular Republican organizations.
But as far as publicity is concerned, this earlier purpose of the Republican Citizens Committee has been overshadowed by the new Critical Issues Council. It is no secret that this excursion into party policies is resented by the Republican membership in Congress. Thus, there is a danger of party disunity and conflict.