Ohio GOP Competent
to Handle Own Affairs
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The most unusual, not
to say incredible, phenomenon in American politics in more than one generation is the widespread demand this far before the Republican convention that Sen. Barry Goldwater be chosen as the Republican nominee in 1964.
When there is an incumbent President eligible for another term, the choice is foreordained. But in the party out of power many circumstances have determined the choice other than popular demand for a single individual.
*
Some have been nominated because their managers effectively solicited the pledges of delegates. Some have been selected because of deadlocks. Others have been compromises when parties have been divided.
But the demand for Goldwater has come from the general public sentiment that there should be an authentic alternative to President Kennedy and that the Arizona senator represents that sort of opposition.
There are some Goldwater supporters who are deeply concerned because in some states the Republican organizations seem unwilling to commit themselves this early.
Certain individuals in New York, who helped to create a conservative party in 1962 as a protest against the re-election of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and Sen. Jacob Javits, have been talking about pushing into Ohio and, despite the responsible Republican organization there, capturing its delegation for Goldwater.
In Ohio there is some talk about offering its Republican governor, James A. Rhodes, as a favorite son candidate. But there is no such plan now in the minds of Ohio’s responsible Republican leaders.
The reasons for the reluctance of Republican leaders in Ohio to commit themselves lie in certain very practical political considerations which amateur enthusiasts in other states should, in their own interest, heed and respect.
I use Ohio to illustrate the practical facts because my information about the situation there comes from unimpeachable sources. Ohio has probably the most efficient state Republican organization in the entire nation. Ray C. Bliss, chairman of the state central committee, is largely responsible for that organization.
In 1960, Ohio gave the Nixon-Lodge ticket the largest majority it received anywhere. In 1962 the Republicans swept the state, electing the governor, a majority of the state legislature, and 18 of the state’s 24 members of the House of Representatives. This efficient organization is prepared to win the state for the Republican ticket in 1964. But it wants no pre-convention contest.
*
Its reason for this is that if Goldwater is entered in the primary there may be other contestants, perhaps Gov. Rockefeller. This would involve an intra-party fight. Such a fight would consume money and resources badly needed to win in the election itself. It would also engender differences within the party.
Since Cleveland and some other cities are Democratic, the Kennedy ticket will be very hard to beat. If the state is lost to President Kennedy, at least three or four incumbent Republican members of the House of Representatives will be defeated. Hence, a contest for the delegation would be a prelude to disaster.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.