Cuba, Focal Point of Red Infection
In September, in a number of published articles, this commentator pointed out that the greatest danger in the Communist nest in Cuba was its use as a launching pad for subversion throughout Latin America.
Those comments of mine were not due to super-intelligence or original research. They seemed then to be self-evident in the light of the long history of Communist conquests throughout the world.
This sort of conquest has been the Communist procedure ever since Lenin and Trotsky wandered over Europe before they were spirited into Russia by sealed train and then captured the Russian moderate revolution.
Eastern Europe and Asia, except for a fluttering fringe, have been taken that way. Also, some of Africa and finally Cuba were encompassed, not by traditional military operations but by covert infection.
★
The amazing fact seems to be that the high command in Washington seems to have been unaware of or indifferent to this patent fact.
On Feb. 6 the U.S. Secretary of Defense made this naive statement: "I have no evidence that Cuba is being used as a base of subversion directed against Latin American countries. It is a matter of constant interest to us and one that we are monitoring continuously."
Two weeks later, one source that one would believe to be available to the President and Secretary Robert McNamara flatly contradicted that statement. John A. McCone told the House Foreign Affairs Committee that Fidel Castro was "spurring and supporting the efforts of Communists and other revolutionary elements to overthrow and seize control of the governments of Latin America."
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
McCone also mentioned that the Cuban source of trouble was "far more sophisticated, more covert and more deadly. It showed guidance and training by experienced Communist advisers from the Communist bloc, including several veteran Spanish Communists."
Readers of history around the White House
McCone
demonstrate serious gaps in their understanding of military affairs and of communism. Perhaps they never read Napoleon's remark, "One spy in the right place is worth 20,000 men in the field."
This statement and truth have been most boldly exploited and refined by modern states, particularly the USSR with its international and Cominform and, today, with its multitude of activities abroad. Subversives and sabotage agents long ago took their place of importance, alongside the ancient professional spy.
The Soviet-run school for hundreds of South, Central and North Americans capable of producing finished agents for penetration, subversion and revolution in this hemisphere comes as no surprise. These schools have been an offensive arm of Communism for more than 40 years.
The Communist university in Leningrad had thousands of foreign students in the winter of 1925-26, for example. There, study of the aspects of class war and revolutionary theories were handled alongside
study of actual experiences.
Party, secret police and Red army instructors analyzed armed uprisings, strikes, civil wars, and all manner of espionage, subversion and sabotage—pointing out mistakes of strategy and tactics and preparing students for violent and covert activities abroad.
Red army officers lectured on the methods of street fighting. Propaganda and police methods, languages and dialects, use of explosives and weapons, penetration into legal organizations and other techniques were thoroughly taught.
Name the countries which have fallen to the Soviet Union and Communism over the years and you will find that leaders in their take-overs, revolutions and subsequent governments attended these Soviet schools.
★
As this is written, the Kennedy administration has proved hopeless as a body capable of handling Cuba's challenge of exporting Communism, subversion, revolution and espionage to the Americas.
The sort of blockade which President Kennedy mentioned in his press conference is not necessary to stop this drive into Latin America. Cuba already has the potential. It has been shipped in for a very long time. The problem is to see that it is not exported.
To prevent that, we have a great Navy, and a cordon could be drawn around Cuba which would effectively assure that what is in Cuba should stay in Cuba. Cuba itself can be dealt with later.
But if its export of terrorists is not prevented, it will be of no avail to clean out the nest. Its poison will be in a score of other nations, working to create situations in which the Soviet can directly extend help.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.