Risks High in Washington March
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is not without significance that the AFL-CIO Executive Council has approved the Kennedy civil rights bill but opposes the mass demonstration planned for Aug. 28 in Washington. The reason for this opposition is that the affair may "get out of hand."
These labor leaders are hard-headed individuals who are also veterans in the practice of demonstrations. They know the risks involved, and they realize how little those risks have been appraised by the people who have incited this protest and have planned this particular demonstration.
*
Their apprehensions are shared by most informed people.
Two basic problems are involved in preventing this huge demonstration from turning into either a colossal fiasco or disorderly, violent chaos. One is logistics. The other is means of maintaining law and order.
The chairman of the demonstration is A. Philip Randolph, head of the Sleeping Car Porters' Union. His statements of assurance seem loaded with wishful thinking. Under him in the management is Bayard Rustin, whose past record as revealed in congressional debate and in the press is, in Sam Weller's phrase, "extensive but peculiar."
*
Among the logistical problems are these:
It is said that some 28,000 demonstrators will arrive by various railroads. The rest, numbering in various estimates from 75,000 to 200,000, will get there by bus or automobile or gather from Washington and its environs.
While all these figures are purely hypothetical, there will assuredly be a mammoth mass of people from all points of the compass, of all ranges of education and character, and most will be relative strangers one to the other.
There must be parking for busses and automobiles. Means must be found for feeding the multitude. If, and this seems not only possible but probable, many are compelled to remain in Washington overnight, they must be billeted.
Randolph has given assurance that there will be internal order within the crowd: "We have no fear of anybody infiltrating this march. We have complete control." Orders will be given by loudspeakers and "bull-horns."
Consider the immense problems involved in moving and maintaining several divisions of an army. But the members of such divisions have been trained and disciplined, and they are commanded all down the line by experienced uniformed officers.
This mass of humanity in Washington will have none of those requirements. Most will be inspired to a point at which emotion may take over reason. Except for certain police precautions, there will be nothing to prevent segments of the mass from taking off to the Capitol or the White House or elsewhere.
So far as the prevention of infiltration by characters whose purpose is to promote violence is concerned, we have nothing but the word of Randolph and others that no such people will be allowed in the ranks.
To maintain law and order in behalf of the government and the public, there is, first, the police department of the district. The size of this force is comparable with those of urban areas elsewhere. It numbers about 2,900 officers. Boston, with a smaller population than the district, has a force of comparable size.
*
To supplement this force, there will be 2,000 volunteer National Guardsmen, presumably in uniform. Nearby in military bases are certain units which have had training in dealing with mob violence. But there has been no mention so far whether they will be present. If things get out of hand, it would take some time to bring these units to the scene.
Washington police officials have made no secret of their fears about the task they must face. When volatile political or economic issues are involved, police are trained to make as little show of force as possible. For such action would simply inflame the demonstrators.
*
Moreover, the district police and their auxiliaries, the National Guardsmen, have never had to face such a problem before. It is not beyond their line of duty, but it is certainly beyond the limits of their experience and training.
If this affair turns out to be an orderly and effective exercise of the right to petition the government, as President Kennedy seems to expect, it will have to be by the interposition of some miracle not presently foreseeable.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.