The average American, unlike his European counterpart, must be quite confused about the meaning of our balance of payments problem. For foreign trade, unlike that of western European countries, has always been only a small part of our economic life. Over there, foreign trade is dominant in their lives and calculations.

Hence, while we all understand the meaning of a tax cut, most of us see no relationship between that issue and a vaguely understood balance of payments problem. But there is a vital relationship. The two must be considered together. No one in Congress has more intelligently explained this connection than Thomas B. Curtis, Republican representative from the 2nd District of Missouri.

With great earnestness and a comprehensive command of fiscal affairs, Curtis has challenged the administration's palliatives for curing the imbalance of payments in several lengthy speeches on the floor of the House. Since the Congressional Record is not one of our more popular journals, I asked Curtis to sum up his case for us in this column. His reply, in part, follows: "Time is clearly running out on the United States. The latest annual report on the Bank for International Settlements makes obvious that the patience of our foreign creditors is wearing thin. Treasury Secretary Dillon himself told the Joint Economic Committee on July 8 that there is not 'much more time to waste' in solving the payments problem.

The recent and unexpected worsening of the deficit will further weaken confidence in the dollar abroad and will likely lead to a renewed drain on our gold stock. Unless the trend of mounting claims against a dwindling gold supply is soon reversed, the free world's trade and payments system may go into crisis and collapse. Such a chain of events would bring economic contraction and high levels of unemployment in the United States and in every other country of the free world.

"A well-conceived incentive tax reduction and reform program, which the President's program is not, would do much to encourage investment in the United States and to increase productivity.

"A tax cut to stimulate investment would not only create jobs and consumer demand, but by providing the means of satisfying the new demand would tend to avoid a build-up of inflationary pressures. On the other hand, an administration-backed tax cut based on years of deficit financing and primarily designed to lift consumer spending would be likely to expose the balance of payments to serious inflationary risks.

"Further, any stepup in domestic economic activity arising from a tax cut would dramatically increase U.S. imports. If, for example, a $10 billion tax reduction raised the GNP by $30-40 billion — as its backers claim it would — then our favorable balance of trade would shrink by an increase in imports of $1 billion to $1.5 billion. Thus any tax cut may be damaging to the balance of payments in the short-run, even while promising long-run benefits.

"As for a narrowing of the cost-price differential between the United States and Europe, the United States cannot afford to base its policies on the hope that Europe will fail to take strong policy measures to combat her own inflation. An awareness of the need to stop inflation is spreading in Europe and vigorous measures have already been taken in a number of countries."

Among the needed measures mentioned by Curtis is a reduction of U.S. foreign assistance and a careful review of overseas military expenditures.

"Administration spokesmen have given the impression that 80% of our aid funds now are spent in the United States. The fact is that 80% is a target and refers to commitments of funds, not expenditures. Aside from the fact that the tying of aid expenditures violates the theory of foreign assistance, which is that aid funds should be used as efficiently as possible by making purchases in the cheapest market, the aid program has a significantly adverse balance of payments effect."