Kennedy May Be Trying to Bypass
Congress on Vital Policy Issues
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
President Kennedy's
aversion to advice or criticism is now well known.
He has become accustomed
to making decisions on his
own without the benefit
of the counsel of the best
informed and obviously
interested sources. The
amateurs' invasion of Cuba
was a case in point. Recently, with his Secretary
of Defense, Robert McNamara, Mr. Kennedy has
shown this trait in reaching other grave decisions.
The offer of Polaris to
Great Britain and France,
the cancellation of the Skybolt missile program, the
elimination of the B-70
manned bomber program,
and the announcement of
the "phase theory" and the
"no-cities theory" underline a renewal of a policy
by the executive branch
to push its powers to the
limit without even the
pretense of consultation
with congressional leaders.
*
The history of "executive agreements" is a long
and sometimes bitter
story. President Kennedy's
and Secretary McNamara's arbitrary actions of
the past few weeks are
the opening lines of another chapter. For who
doubts that the Congress
feels strongly that foreign
policy, atomic energy, and
defense decisions of such
moment should have been
made with its full cognizance?
Such brandishing of the
executive power recalls
the stroke of Franklin D.
Roosevelt, acting on his
own in 1940, when he
transferred 50 destroyers
to Britain and acquired
99-year leases for U.S.
bases in the Atlantic and
the Caribbean. These arrangements were under
what are termed "executive agreements." A gale
of protest arose from interested quarters not consulted. While this aid to
Britain was popular, neither Congress nor the people had been taken into
Roosevelt's confidence.
★
The extended debate on
the Bricker amendment in
the early 1950's dealt with
the exercise of executive
power in vital foreign relations matters without
the advice and consent of
the Senate, but the effort
to curb executive agreements failed by one vote
in the Senate.
Mr. Kennedy chooses to
emulate his illustrious
idol, Roosevelt. Already
congressional opinion is
gathering to condemn the
executive branch's arbitrary manner of carrying
off vital policy decisions
without consultation. Congress is gravely concerned
with the momentous decisions mentioned above, and
justifiably so.
In a speech before the
Air War College a few
days ago, Sen. Barry Goldwater raised pertinent
questions. Among other
things he said: "As far as
I have been able to ascertain in the short time that
I have been in Washington since the opening of
this Congress, not one
member of the Senate
Armed Services Committee was apprised of the decision to scrap Skybolt and
to offer the Polaris missiles to NATO."
He pointed out, too, that
the 87th Congress almost
unanimously supported
additional appropriations
for the B-70 program, but
that the Department of Defense has refused to recognize the will of Congress. This, says Goldwater, "is a very obvious example of the growing determination of the executive to ignore the wishes
of the legislative."
Since these programs
are the result of the budgeting process in which our
highest military officers
participate, it is clear that
the developments regarding Skybolt and the B-70
are indicative of the civilian executive's undermining the judgment of the
military as well.
★
However, this administration's downgrading of
our highest military men,
replacing their judgment
by youthful "cost effectiveness analysts" and the
moving parts of great computers, is another story.
Here we should consider
the function of the whole
Senate in matters involving the largest area of international relations.
Whether a separate nuclear force can be given to
our allies without the advice and consent of the
Senate is highly questionable. But through executive agreements, parts that
would amount to such a
nuclear force can be given.
It appears that Mr. Kennedy chooses to handle the
matter in this way. As
Sen. Goldwater told the
Air War College, "The
movement today is away
from the federal system of
balanced powers toward
an executive system of
concentrated powers."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.