Kennedy, Not Congress, Falls Short
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
There have been appearing innumerable articles, editorials, and even books whose thesis is that Congress is badly organized, poorly led, incompetent, and in need of drastic reform.
Only one substantial and well-documented book has come to the defense of the legislative branch of government. It is "Forge of Democracy: The House of Representatives" by Neil MacNeil, a brilliant congressional reporter.
The more vocal argument against which he is contending supports its indictment of Congress by citing the long list of proposals made by President Kennedy this year which lie stagnant.
★
Most have not even had committee hearings, a few have had committee action, and almost all have not been voted upon.
I agree with the contention of MacNeil that the House has remained what it was designed to be, "the representative of the people, the depository of their power and the image of their wisdom."
It is not because Congress is incompetent that the Kennedy proposals have been frustrated. It is because with a very few exceptions his proposals have little or no support among the voters of the nation. And the House and, to a somewhat lesser degree, the Senate respond more faithfully to the will of the people than does the President. Congress is doing—or not doing, if you choose—what it was intended to do when it was created.
The President has dumped upon Congress a bewildering number of requests for legislation. The list fills several pages of fine print in a recent issue of the Congressional Quarterly.
Even if all these measures, if made clear to the public were welcomed as wholesome and necessary, it would take five years of committee deliberation to consider them and prepare the legislation to enact them.
Mr. Kennedy must know that simple fact. For he served in Congress himself for 16 years—sufficient time to know and respect the procedures that must be taken to protect the nation against hasty and unwise legislation.
Congressmen will tell you that the reason for the extraordinary accumulation of proposals which have not been enacted is not only their absurd number but the lack of demand for them among their constituents.
A large proportion of members of Congress are intelligent people, quite as well, if not better, equipped to calculate the feasibility of these proposals than is the President.
Also, most of these members of Congress are skillful politicians, as has been shown by repeated re-elections. They know, and some of them have proved the fact, that while the President has a fairly high rating in general popularity, the issues he has presented to the country have not excited the interest of voters, and most of them are very unpopular indeed.
When the House voted to reduce his request for foreign aid down to $3.6 billion, the President said with calculated anger that this was "simply a short-sighted, irresponsible, and dangerously partisan action."
★
The fact was that this was the sort of bipartisan action which he has always been talking about. Among those who voted for the cut were seven of the 20 House committee chairmen—all Democrats.
On the Republican side, two of the ablest, most experienced, and hardworking members of the House, Thomas B. Curtis and Melvin R. Laird, refuted the President's statement with figures to show that instead of cutting back the amount the President claimed, the new figure is only $300 million less than was granted last year.
So the President in his initial demand for $4.9 billion was asking for $1 billion more than last year's appropriation. Thus the Kennedy figure was a bargaining sum.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.