Governments in Riot-torn Areas
Are Harvesting Fruits of Cynicism

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The governing machines—that is, the authorities in northern cities who in mounting numbers are grappling with racial disorder and violence—might well examine their own consciences if, indeed, they still are possessed of any consciences at all. For these outbreaks are in large measure the bitter penalty for their own neglect of the basic responsibility of the governments they have been elected to direct and also for the cynical and irresponsible manner in which they have sought the Negro vote.

Among the Negro citizens who have moved from the South they have raised expectations far beyond their willingness to fulfill their promises. They have long neglected the needs of these Negroes while at the same time they won their votes in order to perpetuate their own tenure of office.

I cite the recent Harlem disturbances and the government of the city of New York as an example.

Consider the police problem. Even during the 12 years of Fiorello La Guardia’s “reform” administration these troubles were taking root. During that period I talked with many members of the police force who had served in Harlem. They said that while they realized the growing incidence of petty crime among young and wayless Negroes in that area, City Hall frustrated their desire to use sufficient force to teach those adolescents some sound lessons in respect for the rights of others. In what was called the new “humanitarianism,” police were to be big brothers, rather than the representatives of law and order.

Until the La Guardia years of the early 1930s, I lived on Morningside Heights and my small children were growing up there, going to school, and playing in the parks. Occasionally a few young troublesome youngsters would drift up from Harlem and cause some disorder. The police took these invasions as mere playfulness and under the directives of the mayor and police commissioner nothing much was done to correct such disorder.

Now in that same area there is no safety in the streets, and the parks are in firm possession of hoodlums.

The teen-agers of the 1930s are now grown to manhood. Many have moved through the cycle from delinquency to gangsterism to hoodlumism and finally hardened criminality.

This development is a failure of those who have governed these cities, secure in their elections by majorities made up to a degree by Negroes whom they have won by promises which were never kept.

It is not a mere desire by Negroes to have their children mingle with white children that has caused the school crisis. It is the fact that the predominantly Negro schools have been inferior to the predominantly white schools. This has been due to neglect and discrimination in the allocation of funds for school building. In South Carolina, where James F. Byrnes as governor instituted an enormous building program of Negro schools, there have been few if any demonstrations.

In housing, Negroes want to move into areas populated by whites not so much to live near them as neighbors but because they want better homes to live in. In New York and Chicago the city governments have permitted shameful exploitation of Negro tenants by avaricious, grasping white landlords.

Mingled with these irritants is another evil which has little or nothing to do with racial differences. In such areas of neglect and discord, organized criminal elements flourish. Dope peddling is only one of the criminal professions that haunt the scene. It is found useful to fish in troubled waters.

Finally, when grim reality faces these incompetent governments, they race to Washington for aid. But even the vast resources of this federal regime, with a bureaucracy in the hundreds of thousands and unlimited billions of deficit money, cannot cope with the areas of trouble caused by the callous neglect by local governments. Even the entire budget of the Johnson poverty program could not alone cure the ills of Harlem.

And so we have twin frustrations—the desperation of Negroes followed by the backlash of the whites. Neither can avail against conditions which have accumulated so long. Nothing avails now but forcible action which can bring only temporary alleviation.