Here's the extracted text from the provided image. I've attempted to maintain the original column structure as much as possible, but some minor adjustments might be needed for perfect accuracy.

Goldwater Is Expected to Steal
Campaign Spotlight From Johnson
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The remarkable fact
about this campaign,
which will become more
and more apparent in the
weeks and months ahead,
is that Sen. Barry Gold-
water, not President
Johnson, will occupy the
center of the stage. People
will be for or against
him. Few will be for or
against Mr. Johnson.

The man from Arizona
has color. He typifies force
and positive opinions. He
creates burning issues. He
evokes emotion, passionate
dedication or implacable
opposition among all
Americans. To put it
mildly, he is interesting. A
great amount of the talk
among citizens will be
about him.

*

Johnson is a gray but
substantial alternative.
Nobody gets excited about
him. To those who prefer
him, he represents what
they believe to be safety,
reliability, responsibility.
He is the man in the blue
serge suit who, except for
the fact that he is President, gets lost in a crowd.
However he may contrive
to win support by his innumerable public appearances, whatever announcements he may make of good news or public benefits, he cannot keep people's minds off what his opponent is, or proposes, or does. He represents an old, well-known establishment which may comfort and satisfy but not stir vivid interest.
★
In the pre-convention fight in the Republican Party it was Goldwater or anti-Goldwater all the way. Lodge, Rockefeller, and finally Scranton were incidental. People voted according to their attitude toward Goldwater. Fear based upon alleged irresponsibility was the sentiment Goldwater's opponents sought to evoke.


And now the Democrats
are merely taking up this
refrain from the defeated
Republican aspirants.
Nothing has shown this so
much as the proceedings
before the Democratic
platform committee. Secretaries Rusk and McNamara fell into the anti-Goldwater posture. The headlines after their testimony all stressed their attacks on Goldwater. What they said hailing the virtues of their chief was overlooked.

If, as seems probable, this goes on, Goldwater's strategy is practically ready-made. Whatever he says will draw their attack. And as time goes on, the impression is created that the only function of Johnson is to save the nation from Goldwater. This rivets attention upon the challenger. What an opposition candidate needs most of all is attention. Once he has won that, he can tell his story, present his views, and

hold the center of the
stage.

This is not the usual
pattern of Presidential
campaigns. Landon,
Willkie, and Dewey were
attacking somebody. And
the prominence this gave
to Roosevelt three times
and Truman once was an
advantage to them.
*

Priority of attention
may or may not win the
election. There have been
occasions when the more
interesting candidate
failed.

If Goldwater can, as he
seems to be doing now, put
Johnson and his administration squarely in a defensive posture, and if in so doing, he can excite the anger and resentment of the President, the anticipated underdog may become more and more formidable. It may, despite polls and predictions, be a close and thus a tremendously exciting contest.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.