Humphrey Deserves Second Spot
and Seems Qualified to Fill It

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Some of the same Democratic politicians who argued so piously that John F. Kennedy's Catholic religion should not be a bar to the Presidency are now saying that Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey should not be nominated for Vice President because he is not a Catholic. These gentlemen say that Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy, a Catholic, should be named. This is based upon extremely cynical calculations.

Their argument is that since there may be a considerable backlash among Poles and other groups in Chicago and elsewhere which are predominantly Catholic, McCarthy would be useful in keeping these minorities in line.

★

The argument is no compliment to McCarthy. It is an affront to the Catholic religion and all good Americans who embrace that faith. It is also a denial to Humphrey of the right to be chosen on the basis of his unquestioned merits and his service to his party.

There are several similarities, superficial in nature, between these two Minnesota senators. Humphrey was elected to the Senate in 1948, McCarthy in 1959. The latter had been a member of the House since 1949. Humphrey had been mayor of Minneapolis. Earlier, both were professors for a couple of years in Minnesota colleges—Humphrey in Macalester College, McCarthy in St. John's University.

In the 87th Congress their voting records were almost identical. Both ranked among the most liberal 10% in the Senate. But there the parallel ends. McCarthy during his 10 years in the House and his two years in the Senate was an undistinguished member. His name has never been associated with any particular cause or piece of legislation.

Humphrey manifested articulate prominence from the moment he entered the Senate. He introduced many bills and argued endlessly in their support. Indeed, someone has suggested that Humphrey has had "more solutions than there are problems." But his indefatigable energy and his party regularity won him the official status of majority whip in the Senate. In that position, largely because of the somewhat pale leadership of majority leader Sen. Mike Mansfield, Humphrey has carried much of the burden.

Because of his parliamentary energy and skill he was chosen to pilot the President's civil rights bill through the long debate. As a member of the Foreign Relations Committee he has made himself a sort of expert on foreign policy.

Thus, if anyone ever earned his party's reward as a candidate on the national ticket, Humphrey has and should be chosen for that honor. And Lyndon Johnson should be the first to recognize this.

There is small question about Humphrey's ambition for this nomination. No doubt, this has been his aim ever since, after a good fight, he lost his primary contests with the late Mr. Kennedy for the Presidential nomination in 1960.

It is true that the old and, I believe, outworn concept of "balancing" the national ticket on the basis of religion or ideology or sectionalism has been suggested by the Vice Presidential nomination of William E. Miller, a Catholic and easterner, on the Republican ticket. But these were not the considerations behind Goldwater's selection of Miller. What Goldwater wanted and needed was a running mate who could carry a share of the burden of campaigning. Miller filled this requirement perfectly.

The issue this year is basically ideological. The Republicans have chosen conservatism as their course. President Johnson is liberal, and dictates of consistency require for second place on the ticket the most consistent and articulate liberal in the Democratic Party. This requirement would be ideally satisfied by the nomination of Humphrey.

★

There is no reason to believe that McCarthy rather than Humphrey would help Johnson carry southern states. For in the South the issue will be Johnson himself. Nor is it sound reasoning to believe that McCarthy, merely because of his religion, would help win the votes of Catholic minorities in the cities. The defection of voters of foreign origins which so many Democrats fear runs to many considerations quite remote from religion.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.