When Candidate Johnson claims that Congress will receive a "mandate" to give him his project for Medicare under Social Security, he reaches the very pinnacle of absurdity. For Social Security, with or without Medicare, has been the forgotten issue in this campaign. The generalities in the two party platforms are meaningless. Sen. Barry Goldwater did not spell out his suggestion about making Social Security "voluntary," and after a howl went up he reverted to a general statement of "support of and strengthening of the Social Security system." Mr. Johnson, beyond mentioning the 19,700,000 now on the receiving end of the payments, has presented no enlightenment whatever on the subject. Politicians running for office either don't know what the facts are or find the subject too hot to touch. Such a community of silence is most unfortunate, because certainly not less than 100,000,000 people are directly financially affected by the subject. In short, no subject comes closer to the concerns of all Americans except peace or war or taxes generally or inflation. But no political inhibition rests upon an independent writer, and this commentator feels he has an obligation to state the facts. For the present Social Security obligations and benefits, present and prospective if the 1964 bill passes in 1965, throw a great cloud far into the future and over the lives and happiness of future generations. As of 1963 the unfunded obligations of the system amounted to $330 billion. This means that if the benefits are continued at present levels (and they will be, because no political government can reduce them), that amount must be raised for current payments by employee and employer taxes. Also, the generality of taxpayers must redeem such government securities in the trust fund as are needed to pay current obligations. This burden will fall upon those under 65. If Medicare is added to Social Security, the unfunded obligations, according to competent actuaries, will rise to more than $400 billion. To meet rising payments to those over 65, the rates of Social Security taxes must rise and rise beyond the more than 9% now imposed. In the first seven years, 1937-1943, the taxes yielded something like $5 billion. The outgo was $450 million. But in the seven years 1957-1963 the income from taxes was $71 billion and the outgo was $77 billion. The benefits have been increased in every election year (and also in 1963) and the taxes have been progressively increased. I might go on and on to show the troubles ahead. But this will suffice to show the unsoundness of the course our government is pursuing and the unjust burden we are passing on to other generations and to those workers who are presently paying Social Security taxes. What is needed before another bill is passed by Congress is a real check-up of the system.