The Federal Bulldozer Rumbles
Ahead Despite Critical Study
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When I read the President's message on urban affairs and his request that Congress increase expenditures for the urban renewal program, I recalled a book I read last year on that subject.
It was no ordinary book. It bears the interesting title, "The Federal Bulldozer," and was published by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Press in 1964. Subsequently, a summary of it was published in the Harvard Business Review.
Copies of the book were sent to 200 responsible Americans—members of Congress, administrators of the Urban Renewal program, editors, and others.
Apparently, no one brought the findings of this study to the attention of the President, for he seems to be convinced that this program, instituted in 1949, has been a shining success.
And so as I read the President's message the somewhat bitter reflection came to me that this book—any book—is a frail means of competing with the words of a President reaching millions of Americans, shaping their thinking, and determining what Congress will do with taxpayers' money. Truth is a tender flower when exposed to the political plans and ambitions of a powerful President.
The author of "The Federal Bulldozer" is Martin Anderson, a young man who is a member of the faculty of the Columbia University graduate school of business. His labors in collecting the materials for his study were done while he was a research fellow in the Joint Center for Urban Studies of M.I.T. and Harvard University. There
could be no more independent or reliable sponsorship for such a study.
Anderson's conclusion is that the urban renewal program, which up to and including 1962 cost $3 billion, has not justified the purposes for which it was launched, has actually retarded the development of better cities, and should be abolished.
The major purpose of the program was to alleviate a housing shortage and improve the face of American cities. It was assumed by those who initiated it that private enterprise could not do the job.
*
But after 13 years, private enterprise has made substantial gains. This Federally subsidized program not only has made no gains but has been a regressive force: "It benefits high income groups and hurts low income groups. Its cost compared with private developments is high. The impact of the program on the economy of the United States has been small. From 1950 to 1960
Moley
less than one-tenth of 1% of all construction activity has been in urban renewal areas. Even its impact on large cities was small: urban renewal construction constituted 1.3% of all building construction in those cities from 1950 to 1960."
Moreover, because the huge Federally subsidized bulldozer has destroyed tax-yielding properties, with new construction running about three years later, the tax revenues of our cities, so essential to their needs, have been sharply reduced.
Anderson destroys the Keynesian multiplier theory in his study. For according to the Keynes theory, something like three to four dollars of private investment results from one dollar of government money spent. The actual gain is about 50 cents in private investment.
And yet Federal money poured into 1,760 urban renewal projects in 750 cities up to June, 1964 and more will flow under the Johnson program.
★
The impact on personal liberty is apparently not within Mr. Johnson's calculation. Under a Supreme Court ruling in 1954, the old concept that government could seize private property only for a public purpose was changed. Now private property can be taken from its owner for a private purpose. Today in this free country government can evict you, seize your property, pay you only what it wants to pay you for it, and then sell your land to a private developer.
The Anderson study only slightly touches upon the profits made by speculators in this process. But great fortunes have come from the program to people who have made no real contribution to it.
But, to repeat, what chance does a book, even a good book, stand in a conflict with the President's far-flung ambition? What does truth matter when political objectives are the guiding force in government policy?
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.