Henry Wallace's Days
in New Deal Recalled
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is one of those ironic turns in history that Henry
Agard Wallace's contribution to the development of hy-
brid corn should have helped to undo the heroic efforts
he made in the 1930s to reduce agricultural surpluses
and to create a problem which has baffled every Pres-
ident and secretary of agriculture in the years since
Wallace left the department.
I am concerned here, however, with a bit of a memoir.
For I was a contemporary of Wallace during the earlier
and happier two years of Wallace's public career. In the
spring of 1932 Rex Tugwell brought to the attention of
candidate Franklin Roosevelt and the policy group
which I had assembled a plan which he believed would
not only provide material for a campaign issue, but
serve Roosevelt, if elected, as a means of stabilizing
agriculture.
This was called the domestic allotment plan, and it
proposed to raise money, by a processing tax, which
might compensate farmers who voluntarily restricted
their production for domestic consumption.
Letter Offered Cabinet Job
Wallace was brought to Hyde Park to discuss the
subject with Roosevelt and those of us who were shap-
ing policies for the campaign. Greatly impressed by the
Iowa editor's wide store of information about midwes-
tern farmers and farming, by his modest demeanor and
his dedication, Tugwell and I mounted an effort to have
Roosevelt, if elected, name Wallace as secretary of agri-
culture.
In January, Roosevelt made his decision and wrote a
letter to Wallace offering him the job. When there was
no immediate answer, Roosevelt delegated me to secure
his acceptance.
I called Wallace in Des Moines and rather bluntly
asked him for his decision. There was a long pause at
his end of the line, and only after I had repeated the
question did he rather gently answer, "Yes."
I realized later that Wallace's hesitation was due to
the inherent modesty of the man. He realized quite well,
from living in the midst of the farm country, what a
stupendous task would face any secretary of agriculture
in that depressed time, how divided the farmers were as
to means of relief and that he would be plunged into a
boiling political pot.
Served as Secretary Eight Years
But he came to Washington and faced the music for
eight long years. In retrospect, I believe he succeeded,
despite the criticism which was heaped upon him at the
time and since.
The Supreme Court in 1936 declared the processing
tax unconstitutional, but I believe that the three judges
who dissented were right. Wallace, however, welcomed
the opportunity to try a new plan of soil conservation
financed out of general taxation.
It is to Wallace's credit that the farmers in those eight
years led the way to recovery, and their lot was im-
mensely improved later.
As a public official in those years, Wallace was deeply
introspective. He was also profoundly moved by the
human plight of the farmers he knew so well. He faced
bitter criticism not only from political elements in Con-
gress, but from farmers he was trying hard to help. He
sustained those attacks with stoicism and a deep belief
in the soundness of his ideas.
'Mystic' Term Applied
One of his chief subordinates, witnessing his behavior
at that time, called him a "mystic." This was not inap-
propriate, for he had found himself an inner defense in
his religion and in his humane instincts.
In the press notices since Wallace's death, the more
unhappy history of his stormy years as Vice President,
his conflicts with Harry Truman and his unfortunate
Presidential candidacy in 1948 have obscured those ear-
lier years in the Cabinet and also the quiet but vastly
useful years since his retirement from public life.
The great farm problem is still with us. But it is to the
credit of Henry Wallace that no one in our time threw
more light into that dark area.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.