President Johnson's
phrase, the Great Society,
comes from the same era
in British politics that
teemed with the same sort
of policies that have characterized his 1965 legislative program. The expression was lifted by LBJ or
someone in his circle from
a book by Graham Wallas,
a Fabian socialist, published in 1914.
The Labor Party socialists at that time envisioned schemes for government paternalism which have found realization in the world of LBJ. The difference is that our programs cost more money than the British radicals ever dreamed of having. It might be well for our President to spend some of his time while convalescing in reading how completely the British Laborites have graduated from their early illusions.
In several important respects the British party system is much better than ours. Both major parties over there give more attention than we do to efficient organization at the constituency level. Because of their annual party conferences, the intra-party differences can be compromised before they explode as they do at our quadrennial party conventions.
Such party conferences as have been held recently by Labor at Blackpool and by the Conservatives at Brighton serve to crystallize the issues and educate the voters well before they are called upon to vote in a general election.
It is a tight little United Kingdom, and political strategists can learn a lot more of the shifts in public opinion than we can. And this makes it possible to shape issues intelligently before an appeal to the electorate. Moreover, there is more homogeneity in the United Kingdom than in the United States.
It is curious that while they have recognized class distinctions as a matter of course, we have prated about our classless society and yet have been making all our political calculations on the basis of appealing not to a common interest but to minority groups and interests.
While the British newspapers pay far more attention to the polls than we do, the parties themselves have far more accurate ways of sounding the opinions of their voters. These party tests are not made public, but they guide the party managers and the party leaders in Parliament.
I heard a young Conservative member of the House of Commons who was in New York recently say that the response of British audiences in political rallies now is greatest when individual self-help and initiative are stressed. In earlier years, these audiences responded readily to promises of more government help and benefits. This change is a sharp contrast to the response here to President Johnson's appeals for more government intervention in private affairs.
At the Labor Party conference at Blackpool last month, Prime Minister Wilson neatly bypassed the radical left in his party and guided his party majority in a course of moderation and compromise with capitalism. In summing up, "The Economist" said, "The old Left is dead."
On the issue of steel nationalization a compromise course was followed which would leave the owners in possession of the industry, with a minimum of government representation on boards of directors and only slight concessions to the demands of the trade unions.
Several of Wilson's followers were openly critical of the management of the industries already nationalized. It is dawning upon many of the people who in earlier years strongly favored taking over the steel industry that such a course would require a lot of money to pay off the shareholders, money which the Exchequer can ill afford. Veterans of the old Attlee Labor Party would scarcely recognize the party as it is interpreted by Wilson.
Since the Wilson government is now experiencing a momentary rise in popularity, it is not likely that the Conservatives will provoke a dissolution and a general election before next year, probably not before April or May. Meanwhile, they are biding their time and waiting for a change in the political fortunes of Labor.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.