We Could Take Lesson From Wise King Hammurabi on Uses of Water

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

If some observer blessed with immortal life and a timeless memory were here to advise us, he would tell us that the controversies over water in the Southwest and Northeast are a sad reflection on unchanging human nature and on what we call civilized progress.

He would remind us, if we chose to ignore our histories, that this squabbling over water has been going on at least 4,000 years and that government water policies seem to have been ago thousands of years more enlightened than they are now.

Twice as long ago as the number of years that have passed since the birth of Christ, there was a great King of Babylonia named Hammurabi. His realm ran from the Persian Gulf up into the area between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. The historians differ by a century, give or take, in fixing the dates of his reign. But the latest guess puts it between 1955 and 1913 B.C.

Hammurabi was a wise and constructive king. When he didn’t know what to put into his laws, he drew inspiration and knowledge from many sources in the ancient world. He, like us, faced a water problem. He had two fine big rivers in his areas of deserts and a large domain and he had a thirsty population.

There were massive channels—traces of which still remain—to carry water from the life-giving Tigris and Euphrates.

But when Hammurabi made his laws he provided priorities in the right to use that water. First, the people must have water to drink and to wash their bodies and for slaking the thirst of their animals. The next claim was for household use. Next, the water could be used to nourish the land. And, finally, it served for navigation.

Translating this in modern terms of priority, we might substitute industry for navigation.

There were cruel punishments for those who violated the laws of Hammurabi.

He also had some sound ways of dealing with bad people who visited wine shops, but that is irrelevant here.

In the Southwest, a bitter fight is going on over what is known as the Lower Colorado Basin Project. This would provide two dams on the Colorado River which would supply electric power to bring water to the area around Phoenix and Tucson and for other purposes. The upper Colorado states oppose this project because they claim that such a diversion of water would prevent them from getting a fair share.

It is an old controversy, during which a major blunder in the 1920s and the excessive use of water to irrigate the land in all the Colorado basin have contributed to the present shortage. The engineers grossly overestimated the future flow of the Colorado River when the great interstate compact was made. And thirsty land has taken from the water needed for the teeming populations in Arizona and Southern California.

Here is where Hammurabi’s laws come in. All those states from Wyoming to Southern California are using too much water

to dampen the land and raise crops, most of which are in oversupply anyway.

In New York, New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania there is enough water, but blundering state and municipal policies have misused it. And what Washington Irving called the “majestic Hudson,” with enough for all the millions of people, has been made unfit to drink.

If President Johnson, who is rapidly approximating the ancient Hammurabi as a lawmaker, is as wise as the king of Babylonia, he might consider the need for priorities. It would cost a lot of money, but, as he once said in a Senate debate, “it’s nothing but money.” And more money seems to be more plentiful than good drinking water.

Meanwhile, in the most absurd primary fight in New York City’s history, several candidates tried, up to primary day, to explain why the regime scrapped the plan of 14 years ago to tap the Hudson upstream and provide for a future which seems suddenly to have arrived in this dry year.

I don’t know about the politics of Hammurabi’s day, but I do know how he dealt with selfish people.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.