Birth Control Furor
Masks Greater Issue
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The Supreme Court decision last month which held
unconstitutional a Connecticut law prohibiting the use
and dissemination of birth control information and dev-
ces had constitutional implications far beyond the im-
portance of the facts and law in the case itself. But
because the decision touched at once the public nerve
centers of religion and sex, the greater issue has been
neglected in the comment since.
Ten years ago there appeared a small book, "The
Forgotten 9th Amendment," by Bennett B. Patterson, a
member of the Texas bar. It was brought to my atten-
tion by Rene Wormser, a distinguished member of the
New York bar.
He suggested that the subject opened up an area of
research which might well have a profound bearing on
national policies in a period in which an ever-growing
federal government is invading not only the province
of the states but the liberties of the individual.
The 9th Amendment says: "The enumeration in the
Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to
deny or disparage others retained by the people."
10th Amendment Cited
In most discussion of the Bill of Rights this amend-
ment has been associated with the 10th Amendment,
which says: "The powers not delegated to the United
States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the
states, are reserved to the states respectively, or to the
people."
For a century most people believed that the first 10
amendments to the Constitution, commonly called the
Bill of Rights, were intended exclusively to be limita-
tions on the federal government. The first eight undoub-
tedly are. But in 1890 the Supreme Court specifically
declared that only the first eight amendments were so
restricted, and the courts since then have followed that
interpretation.
The "rights" generally referred to in the 9th Amend-
ment have never been enumerated, and many efforts by
lawyers to invoke them have been repeatedly rejected
by the court.
In the case of the Connecticut birth-control law, Jus-
tice Douglas in most of his opinion seemed to find the
right of privacy in a vague, and I believe dangerous,
inference that this right rested in what he called the
"penumbra" of other specifically stated individual
rights. However, he did bring in the 9th Amendment
and at one point quoted it in full.
But Justice Goldberg left inference aside and in his
concurring opinion put the case squarely on the 9th
Amendment. His opinion suggests strongly that he had
studied Patterson's book. For he said that he could find
justification for the Connecticut decision in "the lan-
guage and history of the 9th Amendment."
Madison's Intention
This amendment, he held, was intended by Madison,
who was its original author and sponsor in Congress, to
protect traditional rights which existed long before
there was a Constitution and, indeed, a United States of
America.
He quoted an earlier decision of the Supreme Court
holding that the due process clause protects those liber-
ties that are "so rooted in the traditions and conscience
of our people as to be ranked as fundamental." Goldberg went further to say:
"In determining which rights are fundamental, judg-
es are not left at large to decide cases in light of their
personal and private notions. Rather, they must look to
the 'traditions and (collective) conscience of our people'
to determine whether a principle is 'so rooted (there)
as to be ranked as fundamental.'"
This recognition of the 9th Amendment as a living
constitutional force holds immense possibilities for those
who would seek to protect the individual against the
invasions of his liberty by all governments-federal,
state and local.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.