Not Even an Educator
Should Pirate Material
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Two immensely significant revolutions have now
gripped that large and lusty business called education.
One is the development of mechanical devices to reproduce,
multiply and promulgate pamphlets and articles
and other reading material. The second revolution is
brought to the aid of the first one, through the immense
sums of federal money made available by President
Johnson's aid-to-education legislation.
Almosy every school, college and university is already
well equipped with photocopy machines for reproducing
pages and passages of books and articles for the
use of students. There are also devices to spread the use
of this material over great areas. The American Library
Assn. has recently published a study which suggests
this wider dissemination:
"Using xerographic printers, report duplicates in
hard copy could be prepared locally. Or, with facsimile,
it would be possible to scan the basic report in the
center and have it reproduced miles away at a remote
regional location. It could also be scanned with video
and reviewed on a TV monitor elsewhere.
"Finally, it could be duplicated on file in its micro-
form and forwarded to the user in that way. In any
event, the integrity of the basic file would remain intact,
and the electronic information center would become a
duplicating rather than a circulating library."
NEA draws Bead on Copyright
The National Education Assn., through an ad hoc
committee, has busily occupied itself with securing
amendments to a new revision of the copyright law now
before Congress. These amendments would strip away
the protection now enjoyed under copyright by authors
and publishers.
The chairman of the NEA committee, Harold E. Wi-
gren, who is the associate director of the NEA's Division
of Audiovisual Instructional Service, appeared before a
subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee:
MR. FUCHS (majority counsel): "Do you have any
philosophical objection to having the institution at some
level or other pay for the use of copyrighted material, or
is it just that you don't think that that is practical?"
MR.. WIGREN: "We think there should be a special
recognition in the law for education. We make a distinction
between commercial use and non-profit use, educational
use.
"Again, I would feel that there are many problems in
connection with the payment business. One would be
who would do it, and so on.
"Philosophically, yes, I do have some feelings about it.
Why should we have to pay for materials usage that is
in the public interest?"
End of Copyright, End of Market
Lee Deighton, chairman of the board of the Macmillan
Co. and speaking for the American Textbook Publishers
Institute, told the House committee:
"Educational institutions and organizations are our
market. We cannot sell our materials anywhere else. If
these institutions and organizations are exempt from
the application of copyright, there is no market, and we
can no longer function as part of the educational enterprise.
At this moment more than 70 million Americans are
engaged in instruction in one form or another with
educational institutions and organizations. To exempt so
large a group from the applications of copyright would
be fatal to the publication of instructional materials by
private industry. We respectfully urge that fair use not
be confused with free use."
There is an even greater wrong to the very source of
the material, the author. Herman Wouk, pleading the
cause of those "obscure thinkers and writers and poets"
to whom royalties from copyright are "the difference
between writing and not writing," summed up: "Copying
without compensation is piracy."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.