Court, Not Television,
Should Rule in Court
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The constitutional conflict between freedom of the
press and fair trial for individuals has been before the
U.S. Supreme Court many, many times. But the recent
decision of that court, setting aside a conviction of Billy
Sol Estes in a Tyler, Tex., court, is likely to ignite a
different aspect of the subject. For television as an insti-
tution for disseminating news is involved here, and its
spokesmen will undoubtedly be vociferous in its de-
fense.
There were plenty of precedents to guide the Su-
preme Court in this case, notably a principle stated by
Justice Black in the famous case of Bridges vs. California
in 1941. The issue then was the publication of material
in the press, which raised an entirely different issue
than in the Estes case.
Justice Black, speaking for the majority of the court
in the Bridges case, said that the substantive evil which
the court faced was not "disrespect for the judiciary,"
but "disorderly and unfair administration of justice."
The question which seemed to concern the court in
the Estes case was not influence from outside the court-
room by television presentations after the pre-trial, but
the impact of the television paraphernalia in the court-
room while the case was being adjudicated.
Cameramen Crowd Courtroom
This, it seems to me, is the vital point. In his opinion
Justice Clark described the scene in colorful detail.
In the pre-trial hearings the defense counsel moved to
prevent broadcasting by radio and television, but the
motion was denied. Thereupon, television moved in for
the kill. Twelve cameramen in the courtroom were en-
gaged in taking motion and still pictures. Three micro-
phones were on the judge's desk; others were beamed
on the jury box and the counsel's table. Also, according
to Justice Clark, "cables and wires were snaked across
the floor of the courtroom."
After each day, the product was beamed to an esti-
mated 100,000 viewers, along with what Chief Justice
Warren said were commercials for "soft drinks, soups,
eyedrops and seatcovers."
The effect of this sort of "coverage" on the proceed-
ings can well be imagined. Justice Clark noted that the
effect on the jury was "distraction" from what was
presumably a highly detailed recital of evidence.
The impact upon witnesses was equally serious. For
they realized that their words, appearance and actions
would be blared out to their neighbors and friends later
in the evening. The judge, who in the performance of
his duty should give undivided attention, was confront-
ed by the diversionary tactics of the scurrying of the
cameramen and their traps.
Defendant Baffled by Procedures
Finally, the defendant, who was on trial for a serious
offense, was harassed and confused by what was going
on. He had already been tried in the Senate, tried in
other court proceedings and tried by television. But
here was his chance, to which any accused person is
entitled, to present his side in the best possible manner.
The Supreme Court divided 5-4 in the decision. The
minority claimed, on rather narrow ground, that no
actual and specific prejudice was proved.
The argument of television, no doubt, will be that the
public is entitled to be present at a trial and that broad-
casting makes it possible for a trial to have a much
larger public.
To this I venture to reply that the actual conduct of a
judicial proceeding is none of the business of the public.
Under free and orderly institutions the public has dele-
gated the operation of justice to those officially responsi-
ble. We cannot have a plebiscite every time an indivi-
dual is accused of an offense.
True, the Constitution demands a "public" trial at
which people can be admitted as spectators and the
media of communication can be present to report what
happens. Television reporters can enjoy this privilege
as well as newspapermen and women. This was made
clear in the court's opinion.
But unless we are to return to what Chief Justice
Warren in concurring said would be "frontier justice," a
court should be a court and not a theater.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.