Lindsay May Find N.Y.
Mayoralty a Dead End
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
If the lessons of history and a realistic appraisal of the
frustrations which are imposed upon a mayor of New
York City mean anything, the hope that Rep. John V.
Lindsay might be the Moses to lead Republicans out of
the wilderness is silly optimism.
Since one John T. Hoffman, a creature of Boss
Tweed, went from the city hall to the governorship in
Albany 97 years ago, none of the 25 mayors who suc-
ceeded him has gone anywhere. Some of these were
estimable men, some not so estimable and some were
bad. But for all since Hoffman, the beautiful city hall,
a French Renaissance adaptation built in 1803-1812, has
been the sarcophagus of political ambitions.
The cycle has been a monotonous succession of long
periods of Democratic machine rule broken a few times
by reform candidates. Since 1895 the Democrats have
held the mayor's office 50 years, while "others" have
been there 20 years. And the only one who was there
more than four years was Fiorello LaGuardia.
What has happened has been that after an upset the
Democrats would nominate a fairly acceptable choice
who would win. But after a while the old habits were
resumed and following especially smelly scandals refor-
mers were elected.
A Sorry Conclusion
In general, it must be concluded that the people of
New York really don't want good government.
Moreover, the city of New York has grown so big, so
conglomerate and so complex in its governmental prob-
lems that it is impossible to govern it from one center,
even though certain of the functions of administration
are delegated to the boroughs.
Surveying these circumstances, Sen. Jacob K. Javits,
who was importuned to run for mayor, declined. No
doubt he consulted his World Almanac and, seeing the
fate of previous mayors, and turning to what has hap-
pened to New York governors, decided to wait and see if
Rockefeller can be dissuaded from running again. Since
1860, eight New York governors have won Presidential
nominations and three have been elected. One governor
won the Vice Presidency.
The Democratic Party has held the mayor's office for
20 years. Robert F. Wagner, wearied by 12 years of
facing what were for him insoluble problems, decided to
quit.
The possible candidates for the Democratic succession
are even more lusterless than Wagner. The peril that
confronts Lindsay is that he will win. For if he should
run, and lose by a fairly small margin, he would still
have a future in national politics.
Many Problems Unsolved
There are plenty of immense unsolved problems and
many frustrating difficulties with many minorities. But
nothing has yet shaken the electorate sufficiently to
create a civic revival.
Moreover, Lindsay has not supplied the zeal for re-
form that characterized fusion candidates in the past.
He has sought votes by promises, every day and most
every hour on the hour. He has shown little comprehen-
sion of specific housekeeping problems that beset a mayor.
But what New York needs, and what a non-Demo-
cratic successor to Wagner is likely to provide, is better
housekeeping, more efficient administrators, traffic re-
lief, new sources of water supply and a firmer hand by
the government in suppressing the hoodlumism, which
has made the parks perilous and the streets and even
the schools unsafe for decent people.
But, even in this matter of lawlessness, Lindsay has
threatened the police with what certain minorities de-
mand, a civilian review board which would make it still
more difficult for the forces of law to maintain order
and safety.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.