Wirtz's Attack on Right-to-Work
Is Merely Semantics, Not Logic
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Secretary Willard
Wirtz, speaking for a President who has reluctantly
redeemed his 1964 promise to the AFL-CIO to
recommend repeal of Section 14(b) of the Taft-Hartley
Act, apparently decided to reject factual arguments and
base his appeal on semantics.
Perhaps this is because his employer, President
Johnson, himself voted for the Taft-Hartley Act when
he was a member of Congress. But more likely it is
because there are no tenable facts which might
prove that "right to work" laws have injured unions,
impaired collective bargaining or lowered working
conditions in the 19 states which now have laws
prohibiting compulsory unionism.
I can agree with Secretary Wirtz when he says
that the expression "right to work" is inappropriate
to describe the laws in those 19 states and is really
not a description of what supporters of such laws
elsewhere are seeking. For there is a right and an
opportunity to work.
*
Anyone may have a job and keep it if he is competent.
But at a price. He can be employed in an industry
which has made a closed-shop contract with a union.
But he must pay dues to the union, whether he takes
out union membership or not. And if he chooses to
take out union membership he has a more or less
theoretical voice in union affairs. His officers bargain
for him and determine how his dues are to be spent.
But while Wirtz rejects "right to work" as mere
semantics, throughout his testimony he uses a semantic
trap himself. He constantly uses the expression
"union security" to define a union-shop agreement.
But he carefully avoids putting the flesh of fact on the
bones of this expression. What he really means by
union security is the sanction of law to compel a worker
to join or support the union.
There is no good reason why a union cannot recruit
members and retain them without this compulsion.
There are natural inducements for workers to join
unions. The advantages of collective bargaining through a
union should be obvious to everyone. There is the pressure
of the opinion of fellow workers to compel union
membership. And, if there is a union and it is spending
money to bargain for higher wages, there is the argument
that all who share in the benefits should contribute to the
union's support.
These are the inducements that have always prevailed
in recruiting union membership, before there were "right
to work" laws. And the health of union leadership
should be tested by its ability to win and hold membership.
But the union shop provides a legal crutch. It makes it
unnecessary to exert an effort to convince workers.
One of the vices in the practices of unions is the use
of their money in political campaigns. Wirtz approaches
this with some trepidation. He says correctly that unions
as well as corporations are forbidden to make contributions
in support of a candidate for a federal office. This was
included in the Taft-Hartley bill despite the vigorous
objections of union leaders. But Wirtz fails to add that
this law has been more honored in the breach than in the
observance.
After a half-hearted effort to enforce this provision of
the law in a case against the United Auto Workers, the
Department of Justice seems to have decided that it cannot
be enforced and that it is a dead letter. It is true that some
progress was made in a case decided in 1963 (Railway
Clerks v. Allen, 373 U.S. 113). But this case had little
support from the government of which Wirtz was a member.
But this provision in the corrupt practices law, which was
enacted when Taft-Hartley was passed, does not apply to
the election of state and local officers. And in that area
union funds are used lavishly in politics.
*
Under the compulsory union shop, the money contributed
by a worker is used in politics for candidates and issues and
political parties which he may oppose. The compulsory
nature of union-shop agreements thus violates not only the
economic freedom of workers but their political rights as well.
For no one should be compelled by law or agreement to
contribute to the support of a party or candidate he opposes.
It is indeed strange that an administration which has been
so concerned with minority rights, and especially the political
rights of individuals, should now, in this determination to
repeal Section 14(h), compel conformity with a majority.
In doing so it denies the right of a minority of states to
impose regulations which are designed to assure the freedom
of all workers. And it denies a job to the worker who does
not choose to support a union.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.