Politics Is Make-Believe
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Reporters and pundits who raised
eyebrows during the campaign, now
happily concluded, because candi-
dates hired public relations firms to
run their show should catch up on
their history reading. For this insti-
tution which we call democracy has
always been a matter of make-be-
neve. Politicians years ago created
the same illusions, but without the
alleged blessings of the mechanics of
mass communication.
Long before anybody thought up
such terms as "behaviorism" or
"psychological warfare" or "brain-
washing," smart fellows in the trade
of politics realized that a great ma-
jority of human beings was an easily
bamboozled lot. And since majori-
ties were all that needed considera-
tion in political campaigns, they
gave the more gullible a monopoly
of their attention.
*
They didn't bother about the mi-
nute minority of intelligent people
because their support could be won
only by the more laborious business
of rational appeals and viable proof.
Why bother with the tough, thorny
areas of reason when there were
waving grasses of the semi-literate
which could be harvested by simple
incitements of mass emotion?
To ignite unattainable expecta-
tions, to stimulate wants, to implant
the virus of cupidity, envy and fear;
to arouse passions and to create il-
lusions—all these are easy exercises.
They are of the normal handicrafts
of advertising.
Now, with the investment of the
seed money for television and radio
exposure, large returns can be rea-
lized in sales and profits. Uninterest-
ing people can be made popular by a
spray of deodorant, homely women
can attract men by using a mouth-
wash, lazy housewives can spare ef-
fort by using ammonia under fancy
trade names and weaklings can be
made into great athletes by hair lo-
tion. Why not use the same puppe-
teers in winning elections?
Political image-making works
with the same raw human materials
and with the same techniques as are
used in selling toothpaste. An ambl-
tious nobody with lots of money can
be made into a statesman by creat-
ing the appearance of greatness.
To be sure, a few so-called issues
must be invented. For the puppet
must talk about something while on
exhibition. If the client is out and
wants to get in, he is made to look
young, virile and eager to try some-
thing—anything. His opponent, the
"in," must be made to look tired and
confused and old hat.
High taxes are always abhorrent
even to the people who are getting
their tax money back in the benefits
for which they so valiantly demon-
strate. Nobody wants government to
waste anything. For waste is regard-
ed as a personal prerogative guaran-
teed by the Bill of Rights.
The issues are unimportant. It is
the image that counts. And the less
the candidate has said or done in the
past, the greater his availability and
salability as a candidate.
Back in 1908, the year Lyndon B.
Johnson was born, Macmillan
brought out in the United States a
ponderous book, "Democracy and
the Organization of Political Par-
ties." It had been written in French
by a Russian, Moisel Ostrogorski
some years earlier. It was a highly
critical description of the operation
of popular government in Britain
and the United States.
★
Ostrogorski was a contemporary
of the great Kropotkin, and the ten-
or of his thinking was a sort of philo-
sophical anarchism. His weakness
was that, while he recognized the
frailties of democracy, he centered
his attack upon political parties. He
favored independent associations.
What was called Progressivism in
those years took the same line. Its
so-called reforms greatly weakened
the two-party system and produced
the conditions now prevalent in so
many states.
But the discipline and order pro-
duced by responsible political par-
ties was and still is the only tested,
safe means of tempering the an-
archy of pure democracy. Otherwise,
democracy itself would be an illu-
sion of freedom.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.