The Highway Accident
Problem: a Suggestion
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
This is written after a tour of 18
days on the highways of 14 states
and the District of Columbia: New
Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virgi-
nia, North and South Carolina, Geor-
gia, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennes-
see, Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania
and New York. The mileage was approximately 3,000.
There was plenty of time for mature reflection about the issues raised by the Senate inquiry into automotive safety and President Johnson's impassioned observations about deaths on the highways which, as he noted, were so much more numerous than the loss of lives in Vietnam—an irrelevant comparison if I ever heard one.
★
Some of the witnesses at those hearings and some of the observations of the senators must have created the impression that highways are strewn with the dead, the dying and the maimed; that the automobile manufacturers are in league with the dark angel of destruction, making cars that are veritable death traps. It is true that the statistics of auto accidents are serious and challenging.
But during those 18 days we saw the evidence of only one accident. The driver of one car had failed properly to fasten the coupling of his small trailer. The oversized box came loose, ran off the pavement and spilled its contents for all to see—groceries, children's toys, bits of clothing and guide books. Nobody was hurt.
The senatorial hearings failed to make the all-important point that the basic root of highway accidents lies in the pathology of a new civilization. In a relatively few years an amazing mechanical contraption has been turned loose on the roads, streets and highways—close to 100 million motor vehicles of all kinds.
★
Perhaps, except for a few million, the drivers of these vehicles are unskilled mechanical morons. Most of them have in their lives manifested carelessness, lack of judgment and the curse of believing that "it can't happen to me."
The roadways on which this swarm has been traveling were initially, and to some degree still are, suitable only for the horse and wagon.
The multiplication of drivers and vehicles far outran the capacity of the states, counties and cities to rebuild the roadways. Such construction takes time and lots of money. While the general opinion of most thoughtful observers contends that the major factor in highway accidents is the incapacity of the drivers, the senators mostly ignored that factor. For they are politicians, and their elections depend upon votes of the same kind of human beings whose incapacity is the major cause of the high accident rate. It was far easier to strike at the manufacturers of the vehicles.
The critics of the auto industry make the point that nothing more can be done to improve the skills of the drivers or to deny licenses to the incompetent. Therefore, accidents must be taken for granted, and cars should be built which will save the lives of those who ride in them. But no car can be devised which is safe in an accident. The power, the speed and the traffic congestion forbid that.
The main objective should be to prevent the accident. Much can be done to that end. Licensing tests must be made more drastic. The schools have an obligation to educate young people in safe driving. Vehicles should be more frequently tested by public authority, and the hazardous old cars should be ruled off the highways. Another need is more police and more drastic law enforcement.
Safety within the car can and should be improved. The auto industry has been working on that for years, and it should accelerate this trend.
But I found on this trip that the greatest of all improvements for the tourist is the new and growing system of interstate federally supported highways. The accident rate there is one-fourth of what it is elsewhere. Great credit is due to the foresight of President Eisenhower for initiating this system. It will be his most lasting monument.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.