Last September I wrote, and my
syndicate distributed to client news-
papers, a piece about what I called
the Frick case. That legal action was
brought by Helen Clay Frick in a
Pennsylvania court to suppress a
book written by Sylvester K. Ste-
vens, a responsible historian. Miss
Frick claimed that she was offended
by uncomplimentary references to
her father, Henry Clay Frick, the fa-
mous Pittsburgh manufacturer.
The attorney retained by Dr. Ste-
vens was Simon Rifkind, formerly a
federal judge. In soliciting informa-
tion about the case I established a
contact with Judge Rifkind, and he
not only expressed his views of the
issues, but supplied me with his
briefs in behalf of Dr. Stevens.
He said, in effect, that a review of
a history by courts and judges was
likely to be unfortunate and that
history had a certain built-in process
of correction by later historians.
Hence, he brought suit in the federal
courts to enjoin the Pennsylvania
court from suppressing the Stevens
book.
It is an interesting coincidence
that Simon Rifkind was retained by
Jacqueline B. Kennedy in her suit
against Harper & Row, Cowles Com-
munications, which publishes Look
magazine, and William Manchester.
The court, a New York state court,
was asked to enjoin and restrain the
defendants pendente lite (while the
litigation is pending) "from publish-
ing or granting to others the right to
publish all or any part of" the
Manchester manuscript which deals
with the history of the Kennedy as-
sassination.
It would be untrue and unfair to
charge Judge Rifkind with inconsis-
tency between his contention in the
Frick case and his argument in the
Kennedy case. For in the present in-
stance the basis of the suit is the al-
leged violation of a contract entered
into with Manchester, providing
that before publication the com-
pleted manuscript should be re-
viewed by Jacqueline and Robert F.
Kennedy.
At this writing, it is possible to
make some valid observations about
the whole sensational imbroglio.
It is quite common practice for the
family of a deceased member to se-
lect or employ a professional writer
to compose his biography or an ac-
count of a specific incident in his
life. In such an instance an author
enjoys access to material not avai-
lable to other historians or writers.
And generally the manuscript is
shown to the family before publica-
tion.
A responsible historian, however,
is generally careful to note in his
book that the family has in effect
asked that it be written.
This enables future historians to
evaluate the book in that light and
with reservations, for it is an in-
spired text and is only the story that
the family chooses to reveal. Here,
as Judge Rifkind said in the Frick
case, other historians are at liberty
to correct the account according to
their material and the views of other
witnesses.
In the present case, so many have
viewed the text and so many chan-
ges have been made in it that its
value as a true and final account
will be highly doubtful. And many
others will write the story with
wholly different conclusions.
The whole episode displays a
gross lack of good judgment on the
part of Robert Kennedy. As the
brother and alter ego of President
Kennedy, Robert sought to shape
the news. Pressure, social favor, ex-
clusive information and threats
were used to control what the press
told the public. Whether those
methods would have succeeded in
re-electing John F. Kennedy, we
shall never know.
But now brother Robert has at-
tempted to control history, with a
disastrous impact upon himself.
Clio, the muse of history, has a
strong character. She has resisted
seduction by greater figures than
Robert. She will prevail again.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.