Developing Communist
Strategy Turns to Sea
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The critics of President Johnson's
policy toward Vietnam fail to realize
that a new pattern of strategy to-
ward the Communist world has
emerged since the late 1940s and the
early 1950s. Some of these changes
have come of necessity by unfore-
seen developments, some have been
forced upon us by deliberate plan-
ning in Soviet Russia and others by
technological developments on both
sides.
When Dwight Eisenhower and
John Foster Dulles took over the
direction of foreign and military pol-
icy in 1953 our nuclear capability
was regarded as a deterrent. Within
the decade there emerged a nuclear
stalemate. Our strategists as well as
those in the Kremlin recognized
that a nuclear war would end in
mutual devastation. Neither nation
can contemplate that.
The Soviet leaders realize that
such a catastrophe would not only
leave what remained of Russia
isolated in a
crippled world,
but would leave it
naked to invasion
from China. The
ideological differences between
Moscow and Peking emphasize
that dread possibility.
And so a reluctant and uneasy policy of coexistence
emerged during the years of
Khrushchev. The early dream of
world revolution dimmed, and the
Soviet strategists sought advantage
by other means.
In the 1950s it became clear that
Communist parties in a recovering
Western Europe could not succeed.
Thus attention was directed to
spreading the Marxist gospel in the
newly emerging nations in Africa
and in Asia and Latin America.
On the military side, for a time,
long-range missiles offered the Soviets the means of building weapons
for offense and defense. But the
"missile gap"—if there ever was one—was filled by our own developments. The Soviet shorter range
missiles still could threaten and
slowly make useless the ring of air
bases with which the United States
had surrounded Russia. But the Polaris missiles mounted on nuclear-
propelled submarines provided a
substitute threat, for use if needed.
Meanwhile, the Soviet Union
came to realize that nothing could
be gained by a land war in Europe.
The devastation of Western Europe
would not only bring the United
States into the conflict, but leave the
still only partially industrialized
Russia isolated—if they won—without
intercourse with industrial nations which would provide essential
products. And our determination to
defend Berlin had credibility even
in the Kremlin.
The great need for internal industrial
development in Russia could
only be met by trading with countries that had something to sell—
with Europe and Japan. And the recovery of those countries that are
now so busily engaged in dealing
with the Soviets was achieved largely
because of financial help from the
U. S. government, private American
investments and the export of our
know-how.
In 1950 it was firmly believed in
the Kremlin and by its servile economists that before long the United
States would be shaken by another
depression and that this would bring
the whole capitalist world to the
downfall predicted by Marx. In that
year I was told by a Russian diplomat in London that this was the end
they envisioned. But their dream
faded as our economy gained prodigiously.
Our Gross National Product—an
inaccurate but substantial measure
of growth—was $284.6 billion in
1950. It was more than twice that in
1965. And so, instead of hoping to inherit the world from the capitalists,
the Kremlin decided to join them.
But the cold war continued with
Soviet efforts to foment trouble in
many places that might attract the
intervention of the United States
and other Western countries.
But beyond all this, the Soviet
Union is seeking a breakthrough on
the seas of the world. Its navy is already second only to ours, and its
merchant fleet has grown in 10
years from 1,000 ships aggregating
2.3 million gross tons to 1,700 ships
aggregating 7 million tons.
Moreover, in May she had 581 under
construction aggregating 5.9 million
tons. The U.S. active merchant marine is something less than 900 vessels, and in May we had under construction 37 dry cargo ships, one
tanker and four ferryboats.
Thus, the coming challenge will
be over sea power. Just as Germany
in the years before World War I
challenged the British on the seas,
so Soviet Russia is challenging us
today. This is the long-range evolution of the cold war which it will be
wise for Americans to watch.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.