New York World's Fair—
Tribute to Robert Moses
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The early signs of spring at Flushing Meadow, where two years ago the New York World's Fair opened, remind me once more of a promise I made myself to say a bit by way of defense and praise about Robert Moses.
It was Bob Moses whose imagination created the grand plan of the fair, whose energy and efficiency put it together and whose persuasive talents brought to it exhibitors from here and abroad.
When the fair closed six months ago, public recognition of Moses' achievement was clouded over by petulant complaints from the bankers. Living by the book and their bookkeepers, they attacked Moses because, they said, he had overestimated the fair's capacity to draw millions through the turnstiles. Reporters for the metropolitan press made plenty of copy over what was termed Moses' failure.
*
The root of the complaint was that the estimate of attendance of 70 million, which was predicted by ordinarily accurate promoters, engineers and accountants, had fallen short to 51.5 million. And the noteholders were left with some of their advances unpaid.
But the answer specifically to those who held the notes was that, in truth, they should have understood that the money thus advanced was a contribution rather than a business loan and that their compensation was in the economic and cultural benefits to the city.
But the fair was more than an exercise in economics. As Moses himself says:
"What, you ask, did we accomplish? I believe we did what we set out to do—to build a two-summer university, an Olympics of world progress in culture, arts, sciences, business and recreation, emphasizing religion and playing down the midway, catch-penny stuff, bringing the hinterland of America and the shores of other continents closer to New York, projecting, if we must use Madison Ave. lingo, a better image of our civilization and raising Flushing Meadow another chapter from dump to glory.
*
"Let me add without apology that the great industrial exhibitors who poured their advertising ingenuity into astonishing glimpses of the future made out very well. Almost without exception they said the fair sold their products to the millions who stood patiently in line waiting to get in.
"It was in round figures a billion-dollar fair. In this sense our promises and prognostications were borne out by the event."
No doubt the most profitable lesson anyone can gain from the fair was, if one could contemplate the Moses career, the value of such a man to the public he has served for half a century. Mayors have come and gone in these 50 years. Some left office under the cloud of failure—even disgrace. None went on to higher office. Robert Moses officially outlasted them all.
*
There is a notable parallel in history. After the passing of a century, the theatrical Empire of Louis Napoleon is the tale of a foolish pretense, of stupid diplomacy and national disaster. But the fame of the architect of a new Paris, Georges Eugene Haussmann, lives in the planning, the public structures and public works of a still beautiful city.
It is difficult to survey the City of New York from any angle and not see the permanent evidence of Moses' imaginative public creations. Gov. Alfred E. Smith discovered him when as a young Yale graduate he entered public service. The elder Moses had left a modest income for Robert which relieved him of the necessity of earning a living. He decided, therefore, to give his life to public service.
Moley
During Smith's four terms as governor, Moses was at his right hand. Smith said of him that he was the "most efficient administrator" he had ever met in public life. Many state parks, arterial highways and the immense Jones Beach Park were built under the direction of Moses. Later there was the Triborough Bridge, which Moses still commands as chairman.
A later governor made Moses the directing genius of the St. Lawrence project. In New York City Moses was park commissioner under successive mayors, and new parks and breathing spaces grew in neglected neighborhoods.
Moses might have closed his brilliant career after threescore and ten. But he gave six more years to the creation and management of the World's Fair. As time passes that, too, will be a monument to his genius in public service.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.