A New Power Structure
Is Grabbing Education
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
President Eisenhower's farewell
address three days before he left of-
fice in 1961, like that of his greatest
predecessor, George Washington,
was a solemn warning to all Ameri-
cans. Washington spoke against en-
tangling relationships with foreign
nations as a peril to the liberties of
Americans and to the independence
of the republic. Dwight D. Eisen-
hower warned against "unwarrant-
ed influence" by the "military-indus-
trial complex."
He commented on the "technolo-
gical revolution" which, as research
becomes more "formalized, complex
and costly," will be conducted by or
at the direction of the federal
government. He might have added
that the federal government has as
its partner and collaborator in this
process the big industries which
find the federal government their
biggest customer.
In the light of what has happened
since the Johnson administration's
program was adopted, Gen. Eisen-
hower's reference to education is
highly significant:
"Today, the solitary inventor, tin-
kering in his shop, has been over-
shadowed by task forces of scientists
in laboratories and testing fields. In
the same fashion, the free universi-
ty, historically the fountainhead of
free ideas and scientific discovery,
has experienced a revolution in the
conduct of research. Partly because
of the huge costs involved, a govern-
ment contract becomes virtually a
substitute for intellectual curiosity.
For every old blackboard there are
now hundreds of new electronic
computers.
"The prospect of domination of
the nation's scholars by federal em-
ployment, project allocations and
the power of money is ever present
-and is gravely to be regarded."
In June there was held in Arling-
ton, Va., a conference on "Engineer-
ing Systems For Education and
Training." The sponsors of this con-
ference were the Department of De-
fense, the U.S. Office of Education
(hereinafter called, according to
Washington jargon, USOE) and the
National Security Industrial Assn.
The latter is a private association to
facilitate communications between
private contractors and the military
services.
The subject of discussion was edu-
cation, but among those absent were
most of those in whose hands there
is vested by law the real conduct of
public education in the states and ci-
ties and towns of the nation. Nobody
was there to speak in behalf of the
chief state school officers or the
National School Boards Assn. It was
most ironic that the National Educa-
tion Assn. was not heard.
Many people, including this writer,
predicted when federal aid to educa-
tion was before Congress that, if
passed, the schools of the nation
would be controlled by the federal
government. That prediction has
now come true.
State and local school authorities
are by-passed in the "poverty" pro-
gram and in the disposition of feder-
al aid to elementary and secondary
schools. The White House educa-
tional conferences and bill-signings
by the President ignored local
school boards.
The great power structure now
looming as the master over our
schools and our children who attend
them is composed of the USOE, the
Department of Defense, the big cor-
porations with defense contracts,
the big foundations.
A new agency has been formed by
Time, Inc., and the General Electric
Co., called General Learning, Inc. At
its head is Francis Keppel, formerly
U.S. commissioner of education who
directed the fight for federal aid to
education.
Keppel's subordinate in USOE, F.
A. J. Tanni, is now working for Kep-
pel in General Learning, Inc. Anoth-
er former staff member of USOE,
John Naisbitt, has been named pres-
ident of IBM's Science Research As-
sociates which produces computer
tests and various teaching machines.
Other federal education experts are
reported to be transferring to pri-
vate firms which want a part in the
new "teaching hardware" business.
Speaker after speaker at the June
conference spoke the jargon of the
new mass machine-made operation
of our schools—"motivational condi-
tioning," "computerized storage of
knowledge," "computerized teaching
techniques."
In the new world of education
now emerging, the facts necessary
for a child's education will be deter-
mined by the USOE bureaucrats,
put into machines made by corpora-
tions selected by the USOE and
jammed into the heads of millions of
school children.
The dire threat of which Gen.
Eisenhower warned is now becom-
ing a reality.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.