Film Czar Jack Valenti-
A Friend in White House
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The motives of the makers of motion pictures are always obvious. It is their inborn instinct for getting the best, whatever it may cost. Hence, the selection of Jack Valenti as the president and chief executive of the Motion Picture Assn. of America.
They wanted not a man merely close to the President of the United States. They wanted the closest. And, apparently they got him.
Valenti is a man of many and varied talents. Everyone concedes that. But there are many other men of diverse and superior talents. They lack, however, Valenti's enjoyment
Mr. Wilson for the election of Democrats, the Republicans carried the Congress.
Two years later, under the Hays management, Warren G. Harding, "one of the most unlikely candidates ever nominated, won the Presidency by the biggest majority accorded since the second election of James Monroe, exactly 100 years earlier. With those laurels as an adornment, Hays was appointed postmaster general, where he was the dispenser of patronage and the "man to see" in Washington.
*
Meanwhile, the movie makers were in sore straits. A bit of a recession following the war had cut into the box office. And as has always happened, a drop in receipts was countered by putting more dirt into the pictures. This in turn so shocked the moral senses of the public that a wide demand for state censorship swept the nation.
Censorship bills were introduced in 22 state legislatures. The heads of the industry employed Hays, a master politician, to stop that trend.
Today there is no threat of censorship, but the purely business relations of the industry need a friend at the Johnson court. Valenti is well suited to the task.
In addition to services to the industry through powerful White House support, a certain reciprocity can be observed. It will not hurt to have a friend in the industry who can embellish the Johnson image through what appears on the countless screens of the country. In this Valenti could help the administration.
*
But Valenti might well check the records in his new office and learn how Hays secured himself when he assumed control. He will find that Hays did not trust his tenure to a single resolution of the board. A maze of contracts were executed—50 in all—the member companies with each other, with the association and with Hays. And to tie everything together, the new charter stated that, "The president shall have power to veto any action of the board of directors." That relationship ran on for more than 20 long years.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.