Citizens Have Landlocked
Mentality on Vietnam War
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In a number of pieces I have written in recent months for newspaper and magazine publication I have stressed the point that our intervention in South Vietnam was in line with our responsibility as the world's greatest sea power. For to permit communism to take over Southeast Asia would imperil the passage from the Pacific to the Indian Ocean. The other access to that great southern sea may well come to he dominated by Nasser's United Arab Republic. And the British have virtually abandoned their role in that ocean.
Making sure that the vital Strait of Malacca shall remain open may be expensive to us in money and lives. But responsibility always falls upon a strong nation.
In letters to the editor and to me, in response to what I have written, there persists what I call the landlocked mentality of so many Americans. There are sneering references in such letters to "U.S. world domination" and contentions that we have no business or right to be on the mainland of Asia.
In Congress Sens. J. W. Fulbright, Wayne Morse and others sound warnings about "U.S. imperialism" which sound like William Jennings Bryan's 1900 campaign when he deplored our status in the Philippine Islands. More than 60 years later we see a revival of that old-time isolationism.
Seemingly secure in our great land area, so many Americans are indifferent to the extension of our defenses on the sea. They ignore the physical fact that we have the longest coastline of any nation in the world and that security at home ultimately depends upon our capacity to have power at sea that can protect that coastline. We have participated in three wars because of that exposure.
Moreover, we have direct treaties with or military assistance obligations to 60 nations, all of which are accessible by sea. We provide that protection through military power, and military power is useless unless we have the capacity to project it over the seas around us. We are in danger of losing all our fixed bases overseas. Treaties are only bits of paper if there is not power to fulfill their obligations.
Our role in the Pacific has been defined in national policy ever since Secretary of State William Seward in 1867 negotiated the purchase of Alaska. The present-day isolationists and wishful thinkers are like those senators who, a century ago, called that purchase for $7.2 million "Seward's Folly." Fulbright and Morse would roll back 99 years of history.
The President has made it abundantly clear that we seek no conquest on the Asiatic mainland. The administration has also made it clear that after repelling aggression in South Vietnam we want no bases in that country.
Sea power, as the British proved for a century after Waterloo, is a means of keeping world peace. It was only when Germany challenged the British Navy that peace was broken in 1914. When Germany challenged our access to Europe, we intervened in 1917. The history of World War II turned on the battle of the Atlantic.
It is not generally understood by the isolationists among us that our economic survival at home is dependent upon access by sea. Because of the development of our economy we are no longer self-sufficient in raw materials. We are self-sufficient in only 12 of 77 essential strategic materials required for our survival.
The explorations in space and the building of planes and missiles are dependent upon imports of materials by sea. And only a strong Navy can guarantee that we get these supplies. Unless we choose to go back to the economic life of the 1890s we must maintain our strength at sea. The job can't all be done by armies and airlift. The heavy stuff must come in ships.
What our land-oriented brethren fail to understand is that sea power belongs to the nation that has the capacity to maintain it. If we fail to fill the vacuum created by the decline of Britain and the destruction of Japan's navy, the Soviets will move into the dominant position. And that is exactly why they are rapidly building a navy and a great merchant marine.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.