'Newspaper Market' Study
Proposal Is Unrealistic
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Either the hot summer has affected the judgment of some people in the U.S. Department of Justice or the attorney general has employed some mighty strange people. Two suggestions have come from the lawyers' enclave which show not only muddled reasoning but a distorted conception of the facts of life.
One of these is a suggestion that the government should cut the cost of living by setting limits to the cost of promotion of brand articles, including advertising. The other is a proposal to study the market for newspapers in the strike-ridden city of New York.
*
Since the second of these suggestions has been more recent and is more unusual, it deserves examination first.
Possibly at the instance of the rather specialized New York Post, unnamed officials of the Department of Justice have proposed a study of the New York "newspaper market" to determine whether the merged World Journal Tribune afternoon newspaper will make life too difficult for the Post, which for many weeks has enjoyed a certain scarcity value to readers and advertisers.
The federal government can claim, of course, that the demands of the labor unions which killed the Herald Tribune lie beyond the laws enacted by Congress. Restraint of trade by unions or by one union in a local situation still lies beyond the law, though in this case the restraint imposed has killed one newspaper and has grievously injured two others. That lack of jurisdiction is the fault of Congress and the State of New York.
According to reports in the New York Times, antitrust lawyers in the Justice Department believe they have an obligation to determine whether the combined newspaper will bring "financial troubles to the Post."
In the course of two long strikes, one two years ago and the other this year, nobody in Washington seemed to feel concerned that these stoppages were dealing a death blow to the Herald Tribune.
But the proposal of the Justice Department makes no sense at all when it suggests a study of the "newspaper market." The "market" for a newspaper is not like the normal consumption of a product essential to life such as milk, soap or transportation. The demand for a newspaper is indeterminable and incalculable. It depends upon the capricious tastes of readers. In all the history of publications, this shadowy value has been measured by trial and error.
*
Great risk is involved in publishing a newspaper, for people can live without an evening or morning newspaper, unlike the solid substances that maintain life. Other media of communication can measurably satisfy people's curiosity. New Yorkers learned that in 1963 and now in 1966.
Government, with all its computers and economists and snoops, cannot predetermine public taste or caprice. If a newspaper turns dull or in other ways repels potential readers, readers turn elsewhere for news or they go without. Any publication, be it a newspaper or a magazine or a book, enjoys a fragile franchise. Only in a free climate can one publication survive and another succumb.
The other proposal of the Justice Department, offered by Donald Turner, head of the antitrust division, is in the pattern of one of the oldest of socialist delusions—that advertising is economic waste.
Turner proposes that government impose "an absolute or percentage limitation on promotional expenditures."
*
Apparently Turner is inspired by a recent recommendation in Britain to two manufacturers of detergents. The alleged reasoning there is that if advertising is cut 40%, the cost to consumers will drop 20%. This hardly needs to be answered except to say that British socialists think that those companies are in business to waste money.
But over there, as well as over here, government seems to provide employment for people who have not studied either the experience of the past or the facts in present-day life.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.