Demonstration Cities Plan
Falls Far Short of the Goal
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When President Johnson early
this year unfolded his demonstration
cities project, a very good idea
seemed to be embodied in the pro-
posal. As I understood him, he want-
ed to provide help for a very few
cities of varying size in the planning
of their future development. Then, it
was assumed, as these cities go on
with their plans, they would serve as
models for other cities. That, in fact,
is what the word "demonstration"
means.
This is what has always hap-
pened. There has always been a sort
of cross-fertilization of ideas among
American cities. Fort Worth or At-
lanta or Fresno will develop a plan,
and, as it gets under way, represen-
tatives of other cities will come to
see it and adapt the ideas to their
own needs.
The President must have under-
stood that the subsidies demanded
for meeting all urban needs were too
great to be provided by the federal
government. The mayor of Detroit
has estimated that $250 billion in
federal money would be required
during the next 10 years for our
cities. This, of course, would be be-
yond any expected revenues from
federal taxation.
There are other reliable estimates
which put the figure at somewhere
between one and two trillion by
1980. Only a small amount of such
great sums could possibly be provid-
ed by government. Most of the mo-
ney would come from private invest-
ment, but in such developments
there is need for over-all intelligent
planning. And apparently the Pres-
ident felt that the federal govern-
ment could best coordinate the ideas
of architects, planners, developers
and the cities themselves.
But when his bill appeared it al-
lowed only $12 million for planning,
and the rest was a conglomeration of
the old kinds of subsidies for hous-
ing, transportation and the like. As
the bill took its long way through
Congress, it was loaded with amend-
ments. The total amount authorized
was reduced, and the amount for
planning was raised to $24 million.
The demonstration cities project
as it emerged from Congress will not
satisfy anyone. The mayors of many
cities had hoped for dramatic help,
and now they are disappointed in
the small amounts of subsidies that
the bill provides. The man who will
be in charge of this project, H.
Ralph Taylor, is already troubled by
the impatience not only of city au-
thorities, but of minorities, especial-
ly Negroes.
In distributing the rather limited
funds which are available, Taylor is
faced at once with the problem of
the slums. Another serious matter is
the great demand for school funds
and the lack of a consistent plan as
to how they will be spent.
One of the very critical matters
which confront this project is simi-
lar to the one which has so greatly
complicated the poverty program.
For the residents in these neighbor-
hoods have been encouraged to be-
lieve that they will have a hand in
the planning, and when that hap-
pens nothing but confusion can
emerge.
In devising this legislation the ad-
ministration as well as Congress
seems to have been unaware of the
enormous amount of thinking and
planning that has already gone on
nationally by private agencies such
as developers, experts in city plan-
ning, architects and others. The
literature on this subject is enor-
mous, and no one in the federal
government seems to have attempt-
ed to analyze and sort out from the
multiplicity of plans and proposals
what might be feasible, what can be
supported by the federal govern-
ment and what must be provided by
private investment.
In short, the federal government
is offering a billion dollars for what
will ultimately be a trillion-dollar
undertaking.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.