Sensible Change in River Plan
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The decision of the Department of
the Interior to drop the plan to build
two new hydroelectric dams on the
Colorado River and to purchase
power generated by a plant to be
financed and built by a group of
public and private utilities is not
only the final triumph of common
sense. It may well mean the begin-
ning of the end of the 34-year-old
conflict between investor-owned
electric utilities and the federal
government.
Those who are not close to the
scene should know that the primary
purpose of originally proposed dams
on the Colorado River in northern
Arizona was to generate electric
power. The power thus developed
would largely be used to bring water
from the Colorado over a mountain
hump to the thirsty and rapidly
growing Phoenix-Tucson area.
The highlight of the opposition to
the building of the dams was a
campaign by conservationists who
claimed that flooding considerable
portions of the Grand Canyon above
Hoover Dam and Lake Mead would
irreparably impair the attractiveness
of many of the wonders of the
canyon.
*
My own study of the proposed
project, which went back some
years, convinced me that the paramount issue was never a question of
conserving natural beauty, but that
generation of the necessary electric
power could best be provided by
steam and nuclear plants.
Moreover, in the era into which we
are entering, hydroelectric dams of
the magnitude and purpose proposed would be too great a burden
on the taxpayers. I venture to
suggest that, with more efficient use
of coal and nuclear power, several of
the great hydro dams will ultimately
be only reminders of the lack of
foresight of a past generation.
There was an earlier Central
Arizona Project which caused great
controversy during the Truman
administration. Only one
dam, at Bridge Canyon, was then
contemplated. The estimated cost
was more than $2 billion. It was
vigorously opposed by the State of
California and failed to get the
approval of Congress.
Subsequently a case reached the
Supreme Court concerning the allocation of Colorado River water
among the states of the lower basin.
After years of study the allocation
was made and Arizona moved to
claim its share through the two-dam
plan. The controversy that followed
has now apparently been resolved
by the new plan announced by
Secretary Stewart Udall.
★
The announcement by Udall,
which no doubt had the approval of
President Johnson, said this:
"We now propose to obtain low
cost pumping power for the project
by federal prepayment for 400
megawatts of capacity in a large
efficient thermal plant built in the
region under the sponsorship of the
utilities associated with WEST (the
Western Energy Supply and
Transmission Associates.)"
WEST is an association of 10
investor-owned power companies,
which will probably include five or
more government-owned power suppliers, operating in the Southwest.
By joining the various members of
transmission lines, its program can
supply the power needs of an area
equal to one-fifth of the continental
United States.
No federal tax money will be used
for development. Capital will come
from private investors. This cooperative arrangement will save
several billion dollars in construction and operating costs over the
next 20 years.
It will be the associated companies
in WEST that will build the plant
for the new Central Arizona Project.
Instead of a federal or federal-state
public ownership, the bulk of the
money will come from these companies. The federal government will
thus become a customer, not a
competitor.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.