Those of us who over the years have consistently warned of the danger to the true federal system by the concentration of excessive power in Washington have walked a lonely road. But suddenly, in 1967, we are joined by companions.
Walter Lippmann, commenting on President Johnson's message to Congress, stated, "The fact of the matter is that the country is too big to be managed and administered from Washington."
Lippmann concludes that "a pause and a reconsideration" are needed.
There is also James Reston, who wrote on Jan, 15, 1967, that L.B.J. in his message was trying to say "a very important and even noble thing."
"This was," continued Reston, "that the spirit of domination in political affairs was dead. Nothing the federal government wanted to do at home could be achieved without the cooperation of the states, the cities and the county governments."
What is most remarkable is that both commentators were denouncing Barry Goldwater in 1964, and the core of Goldwater's message on domestic affairs was the danger of centralized government in Washington.
But some of us were saying the same thing long before Goldwater. And long, long before we were born, the makers of the Constitution of the United States created a structure designed to prevent centralization of power in Washington.
As I have described in my recent book, "The First New Deal," I left the service of Franklin Roosevelt and joined his opposition in 1936 largely because of his determination to invade the states with a horde of bureaucrats from the central government. I have made it clear in that book that in 1933, when the country was prostrated by a crisis of confidence, some federal intervention was necessary.
But the President, his bureaucracy and radical elements among the intellectuals insisted that the trend toward centralization should go on indefinitely. Mr. Roosevelt responded, and at one point he even proposed that the nation be reconstructed with seven great TVAs based upon river valleys and united within themselves by government production and distribution of electric power.
Under such a plan the identity of states would be all but lost. Fortunately, Congress refused to go that far.
But in many other ways the Presidents and Congresses have progressively enlarged federal power. The seemingly unlimited resources of federal credit and the income taxes have encouraged a centralization which culminated in the Great Society.
The well-worn arguments for this have been that the means of communication and transportation have made services national rather than state-wide and local and that the country is rich enough to take in all or most all governmental services.
Both arguments have limits. Most services can be performed with more economy and efficiency at the state and local level. And while Uncle Sam is rich, money is not the only means of solving problems. The administration of programs needs great talent, and such talent is not available in the federal establishment.
The need to solve these problems closer to home becomes more and more apparent. Their variety precludes solutions in Washington.
It is fortunate that this has become apparent now to former advocates of centralization and to President Johnson.