Bliss's Remarkable Progress
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It was the late Will H. Hays while
he was Republican chairman who
coined the phrase, "Elect, not se-
lect." He meant that the duty of a
party chairman was to stay neutral
among aspirants for a nomination,
But once a nominee was selected,
the chairman should provide the
well-built machinery to elect him.
On April 1, 1965, Ray Bliss was
elected to the office held by Hays
from 1917 to 1922. Like Hays, Bliss
confronted the job of uniting a badly
divided party. Hays fared very well,
because in 1918 the GOP won both
houses of Congress and in 1920
elected the weakest Republican
candidate in history by a proportion
of votes exceeded only by James
Monroe 100 years earlier.
That the Republican wounds of
1964 are healing now is in no small
degree due to the patient ministra-
tions of Bliss. He certainly helped to
bring about the GOP revival in 1966.
When Ray Bliss came to Wash-
ington it took a while for the
political correspondents to under-
stand him. They had been accus-
tomed to dealing with GOP chair-
men who held the job on a part-time
basis and who did more talking than
working in the office. Len Hall, for
instance, won his way with corre-
spondents by his jovial manner.
Bliss fitted none of these earlier
patterns. He was not talkative, and
in his few public appearances he
spoke only of the "nuts and bolts" of
organization. He is measurably
friendly and accessible, but he slaps
very few backs. And when he took
over the overgrown staff led by his
predecessors he thoroughly reorgan-
ized it. Several of the displaced bu-
reaucrats peddled their grievances
abroad.
A long succession of victories at
the polls won him prestige even
beyond his own state.
*
While Bliss is no ideologue, he has
recognized that the Republican
Party has great need of a series of
principles and issues to which all
factions of the GOP can rally. To
provide that, he has been in-
strumental in creating the Repub-
lican Co-Ordinating Committee. This
is composed of five former Pres-
idential nominees, five senators,
seven leaders in the House, five
governors, five vice-chairmen of the
national committee, the president of
the State Republican Legislative
Assn. and Bliss himself as chairman.
From time to time this group
meets and reaches agreement on the
issue facing the nation.
As a result, we may expect that
when the 1968 GOP convention
meets there will be little or no
conflict over a platform.
Bliss realizes that the major func-
tion of a party is to mobilize and
educate workers. He has encouraged
this by the holding of seminars and
workshops at the grass roots. Such
efforts do not get the headlines that
Presidential aspirants receive. But
when the great issue is joined in
1968 the party will have ready for
action a host of trained precinct,
county and state workers.
Despite the concentration of the
press on issues, political success de-
pends upon organization. Issues are
the by-product of a successful party.
Attractive candidates are desirable.
But it is organization that gets out
the vote. And the vote is the pay-off.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.