Waste in Health Services
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Whoever does something that he
says is to relieve people of the pain
and suffering the flesh is heir to
clothes himself in shining armor.
This not only assures his popularity
but portrays his critics as mean and
miserly.
That is why it is so difficult for
congressmen to vote against appropriations for the National Institutes
of Health. It is why commentators
hesitate to raise questions about
how that sacrosanct federal agency
spends its money.
The National Institutes of Health
is spelled in the plural because it is
split into a number of sections, most
of which are designed to allocate or
spend money for research in the
causes and cures of specific human
ailments. It is an arm of the Public
Health Service in the Department of
Health, Education and Welfare. The
NIH is headed by James A. Shannon, assistant surgeon general, and
each division and institute has its
own director. The main offices are
Bethesda, Maryland.
★
It is safe to say that no other
federal program has so many powerful supporters inside and outside the
government. What one critical official calls the "vast constituency"
includes chairmen and members of
congressional committees which
pass upon NIH appropriations, medical schools and private research
agencies, certain foundations—and
especially one such tax-exempt
agency—and innumerable beneficiaries of NIH money. This powerful
lobby reaches into almost every
congressional district in the nation.
The swelling chorus of this support drowns out the voices of
minorities in congressional committees and of some doctors and
scientists who have seen evidences
of waste and inefficiency at first
hand. Who would dare defy the
omnipotence of those who would
help the afflicted, the infirm and the
suffering?
In November, 1961, I commented
on what had happened when the
appropriation for the NIH was
before the Senate. President John
Kennedy's budget had called for an
appropriation of $583 million. The
House had raised this considerably.
But Chairman Lister Hill's Senate
Committee on Labor and Public
Welfare went far beyond the budget
and the House figure—to $835
million.
Sen. Prescott Bush protested,
saying that this was more than the
NIH itself said it would effectively
spend. He proposed that the Hill
figure be cut back halfway to what
the Budget Bureau and the President had asked for. Hill responded
by asserting, in effect, that if a little
health was a good thing, why not
have a lot more?
Sen. Ernest Gruening made a
passionate plea to the Senate, naming the seven members of that body
who in recent years had died of
cancer, Sen. Frank Lausche offered
a bit of characteristic common
sense. He said that the agency's
request was about all that the
doctors and administrators in
charge said they could possibly
spend. But the Bush amendment
was defeated 53 to 39.
The conference report asked for
$738 million. But HEW Secretary
Abraham Ribicoff, who had been a
prudent governor of Connecticut,
announced later that he would cut
$60 million from the NIH funds.
In the next year Bush retired and
Ribicoff, wearied of dealing with the
bureaucrats in HEW, resigned and
ran for Bush's seat.
But the upward trend continued in
the years that followed. The routine
in the appropriating process for
every year following 1962 was this:
the President increased his budget
estimate over the year before,
except in one year. The House then
raised the figure, the Senate added
more, and the final figure leaped
upward, until in 1967 the appropriation for fiscal 1968 reached $1,425,-
700,000.
In the President's reorganization
plan of 1966 a new Institute for
Mental Health was created with an
appropriation of $248 million, which
is included in the foregoing figure.
Immense influence in this tremendous rise in research funds has been
wielded by the men who have been
chairmen of the subcommittees
since 1955. One is Sen. Hill, who was
apparently named in honor of
Joseph Lister, the famous British
scientist. The other was the late
Rep. John E. Fogarty, who was
succeeded this year by Daniel Flood
of Pennsylvania.
But support for these great increases has been bipartisan. Melvin
Laird has been a valiant supporter
of these increased appropriations in
the House, and in the Senate the
ultra-conservative Norris Cotton has
in the past opposed any economies.
(This year Cotton yielded his position on the subcommittee to Sen.
Jacob Javits.)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.