Growth of Soviet Naval
Power Is a New Problem
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The May Day parade of Soviet
weapons did not permit a display of
naval strength. But Moscow seized
the moment when all eyes were
centered upon the crisis in the
Middle East to stage a parade of
warships through the Bosporus and
the Dardanelles.
Ten ships were the first contingent, half of which were service
vessels. The others were ships
which have operated in the Mediterranean for some time. Thus,
without risk or serious cost, the
Soviets have entered into a Middle-
Eastern game in which no direct
participant can help but lose something either in prestige or otherwise. This display of naval strength
is another ploy in the interminable
Soviet game of no peace-no war.
The presence of Russian naval
vessels in the Mediterranean is not
new. It has been of
considerable concern to our naval
officers for some
time. One of these
is Capt. F. M.
Murphy, who published a significant article in the
U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings
three months ago.
His article points out the steps taken by the Soviet Union to break
out of its traditional landlocked
confinement into the high seas.
Moscow has had three fleets of
warships in the waters around
Europe—one each in the Black and
Baltic seas and the other in the
northern Arctic waters. The first
two are important to Soviet merchant shipping because they are
near industrial centers.
Soviet naval power is no immediate challenge to American naval
supremacy on the high seas. But the
Red navy is important to the vast
new development of Soviet merchant shipping. Its growth far exceeds our own or that of any Western power. Its size has tripled since
1952. And its units are modern, fast
and highly efficient.
The introduction of Soviet naval
ships into the Mediterranean has
made possible close relationships
with the Baltic units. The two fleets
are able to participate jointly in
naval operations. Baltic ships can be
refitted in the Soviet Black Sea
ports before their return to the
North. Each fleet is able to supplement the other.
Soviet warships in the Mediterranean are able to operate without
dependence on shore bases, although they call at ports in Yugoslavia, Algeria and, most frequently,
Egypt. Mobility is gained by the use
of what amounts to floating bases—
a steady procession of oilers, tugs,
tenders and other supporting ships
to sheltered areas, all in international waters. These "floating bases"
have been seen near Greece, Malta,
Tunisia, Libya and just east of
Gibraltar.
Among Soviet ships frequently
seen in the Mediterranean are the
very modern Kashin- and Kynda-
class guided missile frigates. These
have surface-to-surface and surface-
to-air launching facilities. The range
is about 100 miles.
A new generation of young Russians can no longer be called "land
rats," as the Germans used to call
them. For as a part of her naval
power Russia has trained great
numbers of seamen.
In addition to naval vessels there
are the immense fishing fleet
around the world, hydrographic
survey ships and another element of
sea power—a new merchant fleet of
spectacular size and quality.
★
Capt. Murphy says "The pattern of
naval activity in the eastern Mediterranean, the establishment of
mobile 'naval bases' and the heavy
military and economic aid, principally to Egypt, but also to Syria and
Iraq, underline the Soviet determination to attain the historical Russian goal of becoming a Middle East
power."
It may well be that the next area
of Soviet interest will be the great
ocean washing the shores from
South Africa to the Straits of
Malacca. In that great expanse we
have only a minimal naval force,
and Russia is seeking a foothold as
Aden is being abandoned by the
British.
One of our major concerns in our
stand against Communist control of
Southeast Asia is to make sure of
freedom of access between the
Indian Ocean and the lands washed
by the Pacific.
The Soviet Union in a relatively
short period of 25 years has overcome geographical barriers which
have confined Russia for centuries.
Its leaders have read with profit the
lessons of sea power from British
and American writers over the past
century and a half. A penetration is
now possible for Soviet influence in
almost every vital and critical area
in the world.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.