It is a chilling reminder of the state of our allegedly free society when a President of the United States is compelled to visit a great American city under a heavy veil of secrecy. But that is what I witnessed on Dec. 7 from my office window which overlooks St. Patrick’s Cathedral at a distance of about 150 feet. The occasion was to pay President’s respect to a distinguished churchman, the late Cardinal Spellman.

As we awaited the mitred majesty of the solemn procession, we had no knowledge that Mr. Johnson was coming. No one knew except a tiny number of police officials and the President’s own party. It had been announced that Vice President Humphrey would represent the President.

The President’s aircraft landed at Floyd Bennett Field, and a helicopter carried the Chief Executive to Central Park. There the chief inspector of police made provision for official limousines—and a fire truck —to greet the visitor.

Nine minutes later the President arrived at the cathedral. When he left, he slipped out a rear door, into the cardinal’s residence and out onto Madison Ave. where his car, Secret Service men and dozens of police were waiting. Within seconds he was on his way to the helicopter in Central Park; and the return to Washington.

The Vice President arrived at La Guardia Field, and his car took a roundabout route to the cathedral. A radio car accompanying him was ordered to “stop giving your location and maintain radio silence.”

I know of nothing like this performance since Abraham Lincoln was smuggled through Baltimore on his way to his own inauguration in 1861. Then it was the imminence of civil war. Now the reason is the reign of lawlessness in New York.

Far to the south in Manhattan that day, a disorderly mob was besieging the draft induction center. That mob was organized and led by people who knew they were violating the law and were teaching their fellows to disobey it. The battle at the induction center raged for days.

In New York the maintenance of order against such mob rule has for many months occupied a considerable part of the police force. And on Dec. 7, 200 to 300 uniformed men were protecting the cathedral and the ecclesiastical visitors who were attending the funeral. All these, plus contingents to protect the United Nations, were diverted from protecting citizens in the streets, in the stores and in their homes. This is what 8 million people—minus the crooks—have lived with for many months.

The figures released by the FBI this week tell a part of the story. Under the standard classifications for crime reporting, the FBI released the “offenses known to the police” in New York for the first nine months of 1967 (273 days). They were: 544 murder and nonnegligent manslaughter; 1,462 forcible rape; 25,053 robbery; 20,713 aggravated assault; 107,302 burglary, breaking or entering; 39,839 auto theft.

With certain reservations, these facts can be emphasized in this way: a major crime is committed in New York every three minutes. Someone is slain every 12 1/4 hours. A woman is raped every 4½ hours. A robbery (usually armed) takes place every 16 minutes. Property is broken into, entered or burgled every 3½ minutes. And a car is stolen every 10 minutes.

These calculations are vivid but need qualification. For I am told by hospital surgeons that the high incidence of cases brought to hospitals is on Friday nights, Saturdays and Saturday nights—payday has come and the nights are “nights to howl.”

The sale, the procuring and the use of narcotics are important factors. But even half of these figures would be an indication of why crime has become a matter of fearsome significance.

While Mayor John V. Lindsay’s merry men call New York the “fun city,” it is really a city living under the shadow of fear. And there are otherwise responsible characters who are preaching that every individual should decide which law he chooses to disobey.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.