Suggestion for Revamping
Social Security Trust Fund
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It has always seemed to me that
the Social Security trust fund is not,
in the sense in which the term is un-
derstood in private life, a trust fund
at all. And I offer herewith a reform
which would win few votes in Congress and which most economists
and other students of the subject
will denounce as impractical, even
revolutionary.
My suggestion is based upon a
conviction that government ought at
least to respect the moral standards
which it imposes upon its citizens.
When it uses an expression hallowed by long observance to designate something it has created, it
should in fact make sure that what
it has created conforms in truth to
what it promises.
*
If a man sets up a trust fund in his
will to care for a child or his widow
and I am the custodian of that fund,
the law and moral principle require
me to make sure that the securities
in trust are sound and marketable
representations of real wealth.
But if I need or want money for
my own purposes and I use the income for those purposes and I put
my own promissory notes or IOUs
into the trust fund, I will be required by law either to redeem those
IOUs or go to jail.
That misuse of a trust is exactly
what the government does with the
Social Security trust fund. It collects
Social Security taxes from employers and employees and uses the money thus collected for its general expenses, such as the maintenance of
the Army and Navy, the war on
poverty or the salaries of congressmen. Beyond amounts maintained
for current payments to beneficiaries it puts its IOUs into the trust
fund. Its IOUs are, in fact, its own
bonds and other securities.
★
This, I have always maintained, is
not an honest transaction.
It is true that whenever the benefits paid out are greater than the income from Social Security taxes collected, the government will redeem
some of the bonds in the fund out of
general revenue. And so long as
there are benefits—pensions and so
on—to be paid, the government will
pay them. But its procedure really
exacts twice by taxation for the
same purpose.
The present trust fund is not what
President Roosevelt had in mind
when he proposed a Social Security
system in 1934. When he outlined
his plan to some of his advisers—and I was present at that time—someone asked him what he proposed to put into the trust fund or
reserve. He said "state and municipal bonds." That would have made it
a real trust fund.
When Congress enacted the law in
1935, however, it did not do what
Mr. Roosevelt proposed. It decreed
that the money collected from employers and employees over and
above what was paid out in benefits
would be spent for the general expenses of the government and that
federal securities would be put into
the trust fund. That is how the system has been operated in the years
since.
Now, in 1967, there will come before Congress various proposals for
sharing the proceeds of the federal
personal income taxes with the
states and local governments. That
is what Republican governors have
suggested and what Republican
leaders in Congress will propose in
the new session.
My proposal is that instead of
sharing the federal income tax with
the states and local governments,
the federal government buy the
bonds of the states and of local governments and put
those securities into the Social Security trust fund.
To make room for them, some of the
federal securities or IOUs that are
in that fund would be sold to the
banks or private investors.
Moley
I do not propose that the whole
Social Security trust fund be
changed overnight. The process of
change should be gradual.
But this new market for state and
municipal bonds would provide the
money sorely needed by the states
and local governments for capital
improvements—streets, housing, anti-pollution installations. This would
greatly help the states and cities and
be no more of a strain on the federal
government than tax sharing.
I have already heard arguments
against this idea from people I have
consulted. I have no hope that it
will, raised by one small voice, be
adopted. Nevertheless, it would
create an honest trust fund and help
the states and local communities. It
would not cost the federal government as much as would sharing the
federal personal income tax.
Objections are in order. I invite
them. And maybe I can be assured
that I am wrong. But I believe this is
a vital proposal.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.