Robert F. Kennedy has now
enlarged the area of his conflict with
the President by raising a serious
moral issue. He has also convicted
himself of hypocrisy by saying in
the same interview—and, by broad
inference, in his book—that his
disagreement with Mr. Johnson and
his Administration is not personal.
For if it is not a personal attack to
say that the President has committed
half a million men and indeterminate
treasure to a war in Southeast
Asia under false pretense, it is
difficult to fix any limits to a
personal attack.
Kennedy said, on the television
program Face the Nation Nov. 26:
"First we were making the effort
there so that people would have
their own right to decide their own
future and could select their own
form of government, and it wasn't
going to be imposed on them by the
North Vietnamese, and we had to
support the people of South Vietnam.
I think that is why we were
involved in that struggle. That is
certainly the way I looked at it when
I was in President Kennedy's Administration and when I was with
President Johnson.
"Now we turned, when we found
that the South Vietnamese haven't
given the support and are not
making the effort; now we're saying
we're going to fight there so that we
don't have to fight in Thailand, so
that we don't have to fight on the
West Coast of the United States, so
that they won't move across the
Rockies."
He concluded with this moral
judgment of the President's position:
"Our whole moral position, it
seems to me, changes tremendously."
It is pertinent to note here that
there were palpable untruths in the
foregoing. First, Kennedy's brother
when President certainly did include
American self-interest in his
justification for our presence in
Vietnam. That is in the record.
Second is his statement that the
South Vietnamese have not given
support and are not making the
effort. That was flatly and conclusively denied in a program one hour
later by Vice President Humphrey.
It is true, as I have asserted in
what I have written over the past
two years, that the Johnson statements about why we have intervened
have laid too much emphasis on our
determination that South
Vietnamese be assured the right to
live their own lives and govern
themselves and also that we had
firm commitments to help them.
The President failed to spell out the
consequences to the non-Communist
countries on the periphery of Asia—from Japan to Australia and India—if
Southeast Asia should fall within
the Communist system. And he did
not explain that if the iron and
bamboo curtains should move east
in the Pacific, United States security
would be gravely imperiled.
However, a President and his
secretary of state must, in stating
objectives of military action, keep in
mind opinion in that part of the
world directly concerned.
There is no doubt that the larger
purpose of our intervention was
decisive in the President's mind all
the time. His fault was a matter of
emphasis. It was not the moral
dereliction which Kennedy alleges.
There is abundant evidence that
the governments of Japan, South
Korea, Taiwan, the Philippines,
Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Australia and India recognize the peril
to which they would have been
exposed if the United States had not
taken its stand in Vietnam.
In world affairs the nation with
great power and resources, especially with vast sea and air power,
assumes a moral obligation to
protect the weak against aggression.
That is just as true of strong nations
as it is of strong men upon whom so
many must depend for security and
help.
Robert Kennedy leans upon frail
support when he matches moral
issues with the President in this
crisis in our history.