1968 Presidential Race
Will Be Totally Unlike '64
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Every presidential campaign differs from all that preceded it. And 1968 will be radically unlike 1964.
In 1964 the personality of the GOP candidate, the platform and the issues were based upon the belief of a large number of Republicans that there was a conservative trend among voters which, if sufficiently exploited, would produce a victory.
It is still not clear whether that appraisal was right or wrong. For the defending President and his cohorts took their key from the pre-convention anti-Goldwater Republicans and incited fear by crying "extremism." A decision on the real issue of conservatism versus liberalism was impossible in the confusion which followed.
Old folks, minority groups and all who feared the prospect of intensifying the war in Vietnam were convinced that what Republicans called conservatism was inimical to the people's welfare and the nation's safety and security.
To contend now that the Democratic counterattack was neither true nor fair is beside the point. The election proved that it worked. And since politicians play the game to win, Republicans since then have determined that no such issue will be raised in 1968. Only a minority, encouraged by the victory of the conservative Ronald Reagan in California in 1966, still believes that the issue of conservatism will suffice in 1968.
★
All the expressions of Republican policy have avoided drawing the old issues of federal centralization, erosion of state and local responsibility and the perils of a rapacious and incompetent Washington bureaucracy. In short, responsible Republicans never want another campaign based upon the strict ideological choice between conservatism and liberalism. Such an issue would, they believe, serve only to divide the party and invite the old war cry of extremism.
*
A whole new series of issues has emerged. These have to do not with what the federal establishment will do, but how the programs will be administered. And as a consequence of the continuing Negro disturbances there is the issue of what can be done to pacify the Negro population while at the same time preventing a white counterrevolution.
To a remarkable extent, the personality of President Johnson has become a major issue. Mr. Johnson's decline in popularity has encouraged Republicans to exploit what is called the "credibility gap," which in blunter terms, is that what he tells us is somewhat less than the truth.
"Sure I liked L.B.J.
Didn't everyone?"
Cartoon by Wicks
He is periodically charged with being a most expensive President. Aside from war outlays he has, it is said, spent unbelievably great amounts on his programs, thus adding immensely to the national debt and producing the perils of inflation. He has, it is charged, been woefully wrong in his budget estimates. His promises of economy have proved worthless.
Above all, the campaign of 1968 may be more personal than is usual. In 1964 some personal charges were made. But then Mr. Johnson had been in office only part of a term and had taken office under the shadow of a great tragedy. The public was unwilling to judge him on so short a period of authority. In 1968 he cannot escape judgment, for he has had every opportunity to make a record on his own.
Thus, the prospect lies ahead for a campaign quite unlike any we have seen in a generation and wholly unlike that of 1964.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.