Is the U.S. Pricing Social
Security Out of Business?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
President Johnson and his boy,
Gardner Ackley, don't like the rise
in steel prices. Neither do the
companies, the steelworkers and
that perennial victim of inflation,
the American consumer.
But this is the same Mr. Johnson
who demanded big increases in
Social Security benefits and the
taxes to pay for them. Those
increases are now made certain by
the actions of the House and Senate
and the conference committee,
which may well report before this
session of Congress ends for the
holidays.
I realize that the increased cost of
production which made a steel price
rise inevitable was not solely the
result of Social Security taxes. But
they were a factor, and a very
considerable one.
Earlier I cited certain figures
about the cost of workers' security
in the iron and steel industry. But to
make my point here, it is well to
restate them, for they are fairly
illustrative of what most big industries are already paying for the
security of workers and their families.
In 1940 in the iron and steel
industry, employe benefits cost approximately 5 cents per hour for
each employe. By 1966 this cost had
risen to 66 cents per worker-hour.
ments between the company and the
unions. In that sense they are
collectively a matter of the workers'
choice. And they are a mark of
increasing enlightenment in management-labor relations.
However, as has been pointed out
by responsible company managers,
these company pension plans are
gravely threatened by the yearly
and politically inspired rise in Social
Security taxes. As management and
the unions well know, the omnipotent government must be paid,
and the voluntary pension provisions must come out of what is left.
There are certain advantages in
these pension plans over the present
monolithic system of Social Security.
One is that they are flexible and
can be adjusted to the special needs
of each company and its workers.
For example, one company may be
"maturing" and concerned with
eliminating or consolidating some
operations to meet competition. It
therefore must anticipate displacement of employes. For that reason
its pension plan must provide for
early retirement and supplemental
benefits.
*
Another company is new and in a
growing industry. It is concerned
with attracting new employes and
retaining old ones. Hence, more
emphasis is placed on keeping
employes as long as possible.
Pension plans can be adapted to fit
each of those companies needs.
Another advantage of private
pension plans is that their reserves
are invested in capital-creating securities. This means provision for
more production and more jobs.
Social Security reserves, on the
contrary, are entirely in U. S.
government bonds and the current
revenues are spent only partially
and indirectly in creating new
capital.
Another advantage is that private
pension reserves to a large degree
are invested in common stocks and
mortgages. Thus, in such investments there is a considerable hedge
against inflation. No such protection
is in the Social Security system. The
income on its reserves is fixed, and
the only relief for prospective
beneficiaries is in constant increases
in benefits which must always be
protected by further rises in taxes.
And that, as we know, creates a
constant spiral of inflation.
Finally, private pension plans
provide a supplement to what a
retired worker gets from Social
Security. But with the prospect of
higher and higher living costs, every
retired worker will have less in real
spending money from his Social
Security payments. He now needs
and will need more to make ends
meet. And that need is measurably
met by private company-paid pensions.
Under the new law, that figure will
increase several cents more. Included in these figures are the employers' part of Social Security, supplemental unemployment payments,
savings and vacation benefits, medical and health insurance and company-paid pension costs.
In the same period of 27 years,
employment costs per hour rose
from 901⁄2 cents to $4.82. Thus with
higher pay there were higher benefits.
A company's pension plans have
been created by periodical agreements between the company and the
unions. In that sense they are
collectively a matter of the workers'
choice. And they are a mark of
increasing enlightenment in management-labor relations.
The object is to stay ahead
of the villain.
Cartoon by Dowling
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.