Should the GOP Draft Reagan?
RY RAYMOND MOLEY

The eager young men and women in statecraft.
in the Young Republicans conven- My advice to those who would
tion in Omaha as well as so many plunge Reagan into a contest for the
stalwart conservatives over the na- Presidency is based upon very
tion who are calling for the nomina- practical considerations. Those who
tion of Gov. Reagan next year vote in November are moved by
should give themselves the benefit quite different sentiments and emo-
of some quiet reflection. Indeed, tions than are present in July. A
that was Barry Goldwater's warning great many things happen in the
when he appeared in Omaha. And long weeks of campaigning after the
he, of all people, knows what faces a conventions.
candidate.
In that excessively long campaign
This advice to temper the draft- the candidates, especially the candi-
Reagan enthusiasm in no way date of the challenging party, must
ignores the attractiveness of the speak hundreds of thousands of
California governor as a man and as words and take positions on dozens
a political asset to his party and the of vital questions. These positions
country.
must be taken in every region and in
It is based, however, upon a every state.
number of sobering realities.
In countless press conferences
There is a great difference be- candidates must meet prying ques-
tween winning a nomination and tions that are not designed to glorify
winning an election. Even if we the man who must answer. Too
minimize that difference, we should often they are designed to entrap
take account of the gap that may him. Despite the employment of
prevail between the qualities of an many experts, advisers and assis-
attractive candidate and those tants, the candidate must stand
which are essential to meet the naked before the public. Nothing
grave responsibilities of a President. can save him then except his own
Reagan must take this into ac- knowledge and experience.
count as he assays his experience Even the soundest conservative
and equipment at this time. In five philosophy will not suffice. For in
years this appraisal would no doubt 1968 the candidates must meet
result in a different answer, for the specifics which have nothing to do
office of governor of California with philosophy.
should provide a wonderful training Moreover, the 1968 campaign must
be fought in a troubled and chang-
ing world, and the candidates must
meet new and unpredictable issues.
Toward the end of the campaign
voters must come to grips with the
grave choice between two men.
Despite my reservations about the
collective wisdom of the electorate, I
realize that millions of voters,
overriding prejudices, predilections
and superficial preferences, will
measure the qualities of the candi-
dates against the immense demands
of the office to which they aspire.
That hour of the voters' decision
should be considered by those who
are now calling for the nomination
of Ronald Reagan. For at that
moment the chips are down. The
vote in November is the payoff, not
the howling confusion of the con-
vention in July.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.