Unhorse Sen. Lausche?---
A Young Buckeye Will Try
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Despite the strength of the Republican Party in Ohio and its dominance there since Richard Nixon carried it in 1960, there has always been a scarcity of Republicans who have dared to challenge the remarkable Frank J. Lausche. For in an official career of 35 years Lausche has lost only once. But this time when the senior senator comes up for reelection there may be sharp competition. And unless Robert Taft Jr. decides once more to risk his seat in the House of Representatives, a likely opponent will be Sherman Unger, an attractive Cincinnati lawyer who is, at 40, young enough to be Lausche's son. The senator, while acknowledging his status as a senior citizen, is not, however, expected to look kindly toward Unger as his political heir. As a native of Ohio, there may be something of prejudice in my appraisal of the Buckeye State. But it can hardly be denied that Ohio has produced some of the most interesting phenomena in our national history. In the past century seven of its native sons have been elected President. A group of statues on the capitol grounds in Columbus includes the most distinguished Union generals in the Civil War and also the secretary of war in Lincoln's Cabinet. In recent years Ohio sent to the Senate the foremost exponent of Republicanism of his time, Robert A. Taft. And the Republican National Committee in 1965, seeking a man to reorganize a defeated party, turned to Ohio for the most successful state chairman in the nation, Ray Bliss. But when we seek the most unusual political figure in the state's history, we must agree upon Lausche. He is not a man given to an excess of words. His autobiography in "Who's Who" is one of the shortest. But it tells a lot in a short space—an elected judge in Cleveland for nine years, two terms as mayor, five terms as governor, and twice elected U.S. senator. Despite these remarkable political successes, Lausche, a Democrat, has never been an organization man. In Cleveland he disdained the support of his party's machine. And despite the fact that he was not only city-bred but also, once removed, a product of the immigrant melting pot (his people came from Yugoslavia), the farmers and small towns embraced him when he ran for governor. He won majorities in industrial areas despite the coldness toward him of powerful labor leaders. And on Senate roll calls he has more often voted with the minority than with the Democratic majority. He has made no long speeches either in the Senate or on the campaign trails. When Democratic national candidates have visited Ohio, he has frequently been among the absent. And "age has not withered nor custom staled" his infinite variety. Anyone who, like Unger, is anxious to risk a battle with such a champion is ipso facto something of a celebrity. As a young men he already has some seniority in political service. He did what all young people who seek a political career should do: he started at the bottom as a precinct worker. He labored in local politics for three years. Then he served in the Nixon campaign organization in 1960. He served on the Republican Congressional Committee staff in 1962 and after that joined Nixon again. In 1964 he worked as an assistant to the Republican national chairman. Unger's aim now is to seek the Republican nomination for senator in 1968. Since it seems unlikely that the junior Taft will tackle Lausche after having lost to Sen. Stephen Young in 1964, Unger may have his turn. When I talked with him about his prospective campaign, my measured observation was that even a defeat at the hands of Lausche would never count against him. For running for office provides the two indispensable elements in a political career—exposure to the electorate and invaluable experience. If he loses he can, as Lincoln did more than once, try again. If he wins he will be a U.S. senator.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.