Our Wayward
Universities
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
There have been many classical depictions
of the lost ideal of the university. It was the
place, in a busy society pursuing multitudin-
ous purposes, where a relatively small
number of mature intellects might study, do
research, think and draw to themselves
young learners who might succeed their
elder mentors or go out into the world with
an understanding of the underlying nature
and meaning of its problems. Woodrow
Wilson defined it 72 years ago at Princeton:
"A little world; but not perplexed, living
with a singleness of purpose not found
without; the home of sagacious men,
debaters of the world's questions every day
... and yet a place removed—calm science
seated there, recluse, ascetic, like a nun; not
knowing that the world passes, not caring, if
the truth but come in answer to her prayer."
My own definition, without Wilson's
eloquence, serves better. For it includes in
the university's purpose the primary obliga-
tion of passing on the knowledge and
wisdom of "sagacious men" to students
through instruction, seeking to become like
their mentors, searchers for the truth
beneath the surface of affairs.
Since I terminated my relationship with
Columbia University 16 years ago, I had not
realized what a transformation had taken
place there until I read this week what a
man of high intelligence, like Wilson, had to
say about the change. He is Jacques Barzun,
a man who reached eminence as a professor
and scholar, and who for 12 years deserted
the classroom and served as dean of the
faculties and provost until last year.
*
He prefaces what he says by noting that in
1953 the Columbia budget was $20 million.
In 1966 it was $120 million. This was
certainly not due to the growth of the
student body. For I did a bit of checking
about enrollment. And after calling four
different offices in the great complex that is
the modern Columbia, the registrar's office
gave me the enrollment figures for 1953 and
1966. These were 17,897 in 1953 and 17,534 in
1966. These figures do not include three of
the affiliated Columbia colleges: Barnard,
Teachers' College and the School of Pharmacy.
But they would not greatly alter the
comparison.
And so the swelling, or growth, if you will,
of Columbia is not due to the increase of the
student body. It is because, as Barzun says:
"The American university has upheaved
itself to 'catch up' and 'modernize,' words
that mean: has ceased to be a sheltered spot
for study only; has come into the market
place and answered the cries for help
uttered by government, industry and the
general public; has busily pursued the
enthusiasm of our utopian leaders of
thought, both private patrons and big
foundations; has served the country by
carrying on research for national goals; has,
finally, recognized social needs by undertaking
to teach the quite young, the middle-
aged, the disabled, the deprived, the
misdirected and the maladjusted.
"Every new skill or item of knowledge
developed within the academy creates a new
claim by the community. It thus comes
about that the school of social work aids the
poor, the school of architecture redesigns
the slums, the school of business advises the
small tradesman, the school of dentistry
runs a free clinic, the school of law gives
legal aid and the undergraduate college
supplies volunteers to hospitals, recreation
centers and remedial schools."
*
Thus overly occupied by these activities
outside the institutions it has been unable to
give attention to the primary function of
research, thinking and teaching.
The pressure on the faculty to engage
more fully in the life of the urban
community, the state and the nation began
long ago at Columbia and elsewhere. The
"extensions" of the University of Wisconsin
spread all over the state, telling farmers
how to farm, helping cities to govern
themselves by providing free administrative
service, writing bills for ignorant state
legislators and at the same time supplying
recruits for actual jobs in government at all
levels.
Nicholas Murray Butler stressed the
obligation of the university to give "service"
to the public and set a shining example by
his own adventures in national and international
politics.
The consequences of all these preoccupations
of the university, its administrative
officers and faculty members is, as Barzun
points out, a flight from teaching by those
best equipped and the consequent imposition
upon students of untrained young
instructors and assistant professors.
It is small wonder that with this
preoccupation of the university with public
affairs and with the boredom suffered by
students denied interesting classroom instruction
that the students themselves have
become activists in matters of city, state and
national concern. Here may well be the root
of the crisis in the universities.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.