Vietnam Land Reform Crucial
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A major reason why the United
States became involved in the war
in Vietnam was the failure of the
Diem government to meet its promise
of land-holding reform. For as
the fulfillment of that promise
lagged, the National Liberation
Front, or Viet Cong, undoubtedly
directed by Hanoi, was organized in
1960 to exploit the unhappiness of
the peasant population. And thus a
revolt grew into a civil war and later
into an international conflict.
★
Although the areas involved were
not large, certain communal land,
farmed by individual peasants, was
very important in the land-holding
structure of the country. Much of
this was in the Mekong Delta
developed by the French into the
"rice bowl" of the nation. Some of
this productive area was owned by
French colonials, but most was held
by Vietnamese who cultivated it by
tenants working on small parcels of
two or three hectares. (A hectare is
about two and a half acres.)
When the Diem government came
into power after the Geneva settlement in 1954 it inherited a grossly
inequitable pattern of land ownership. About 40% of the rice-growing
area was held by about 2,500
individuals, or less than 1% of the
population. Most of these landlords
were Vietnamese. Some were
French. Rent rates were usually
50% of the cash crop. These tenants
had little security. They lived and
worked at the caprice of the
landlords.
President Diem's land-reform program provided for the breakup of
the larger estates, the regulation of
rent and credit facilities. In 1958 the
French government in Paris offered
to help Diem by providing funds to
buy out the French landlords. The
U.S. aid program also contributed
some money. But the result was that
only about 10% of the people
benefited. The rest were left under
some form of tenantry.
In large part the beneficiaries of
the survival of status quo were
provincial chiefs who were in most
cases South Vietnamese generals or
other army officers.
Into this unhappy breeding
ground moved the Communists. For,
just as in China after World War II,
Communists came as "agrarian reformers." These Communists led the
peasants to believe that the land
they tilled was theirs by right. They
gave their victims spurious papers
of ownership which, of course,
would have no validity in the eyes of
the Saigon government. But many
of these peasants were thus won to
the cause of the Viet Cong.
By 1961 the deterioration had
reached proportions where bloody
civil strife was inevitable. The
assassination of Diem and the
takeover by the military brought
about a confrontation not only with
the NLF but with Hanoi. And major
American intervention followed.
Under the conditions imposed by
hostilities, little could be done about
land reform. Each province had a
land-affairs officer who was responsible to a director general in Saigon,
but the administration was vested in
the provincial chief, who was generally a military officer.
But many of the villages were by
that time under Viet Cong control
and still are. Inflation—that specter
which is the companion of all
revolutions and wars—entered the
scene. The price of rice rose four-
fold. And the price of land went up
higher and higher until it was
beyond calculation.
★
When the Viet Cong took over a
village, all absentee land was expropriated and "title" was given to
peasants if they joined the Viet
Cong. No rents were collected, but
taxes were very high. Under the
Communist plans, ultimate collective ownership was contemplated.
In other words, the peasants merely
changed landlords.
As the war has liberated certain
areas, the status quo between landlord and tenant has been restored.
The sequel remains to be written as
the war will end in negotiation or
victory over the Communist aggression.
My purpose in reciting the foregoing is not to venture suggestions
about the future of South Vietnam.
It is to show how in every developing country land reform is imperative if communism is to be avoided
and the United States is to be spared
involvement.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.