Rights: Heat Without Light
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It may be that the tragic end of
Martin Luther King Jr. and the
emotional convulsions that followed
will bring about certain clarity to
the movement for Negro rights. At
least that must be the hope of those
who kept calm during the hurricane.
But if that hope is to be realized,
responsible Negro leaders and their
white supporters must offer more
practical and attainable objectives
than they have stated up to now. It
may not be popular to say this at
this time, but I suggest, nevertheless,
that too much of the leadership in
the movement has been provided by
some ministers of the gospel.
*
The ministers, as is their professional
wont, speak in terms of faith and
hope. These are fine words because
they lift the spirits of their flocks
above the hard realities in which
those listeners live their lives. But
these visions project those who entertain
them into the unknown and unknowable.
Too often this has lead some men of
the cloth to talk about the "higher
law," an expression which had a part
in bringing on our Civil War. A modern
exponent of that sort of thing is the
Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr., who
said on one occasion: "When laws begin
to dominate rather than to serve men,
far from staving off chaos they begin to
invite it . . . it is only a good law, not
any law, that stands between man and
chaos . . . respect what is legal, but
be more concerned with what is right."
Thus, young people—all people—are
encouraged to decide for themselves
what is right. What laws are to be obeyed
and what are to be rejected.
*
That sort of thinking translated into
the idiom of a demagog is what Stokley
Carmichael used in a press conference
on April 5: "We have to retaliate for the
deaths of our leaders. The execution for
those deaths will not be in the courtrooms.
They're going to be in the streets of the
United States of America."
The relationship between these two
expressions is not far to see, for since Dr.
Coffin would assume a status of equality
among men, Carmichael's "right" is just as
valid as that of the chaplain of Yale University.
Carmichael's way has already produced
the chaos which Dr. Coffin says is caused
by laws of which he disapproves. The dead
and the maimed and the homeless and charred
city blocks are certainly a considerable part
of the grim harvest of reformers who permit
their hearts to drown the voice of their minds.
The training of ministers—even those who
like Dr. Coffin have had formal education—
consists altogether too much in philosophical
theory and the art of exhortation. There is
little study of the slow evolution of civilized
order by laws, custom and constitutional
principle.
Behind the structure of our Anglo-American
civilization there was a period of hundreds
of years of growth. That certainly should
teach us that the integration into our society
of a relatively late but numerous minority
is not a matter of this year or the next. Even
our Supreme Court has recognized that.
★
There is ample evidence that forward
steps have been taken in the past two or
three decades. The Negro's lot is a great
deal better than it was at the end of World
War II.
What are needed now are specific objectives
for the next generation. But impatience, the
child of emotion, is fostered by the preachments
of some rights leaders. Time should be bought
for orderly change. But the one virtue that
has not been taught by the ministers to whom
I have referred is patience.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.