Decline of the U.S. Senate
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A useful exercise in adult education is to review, after 10 or more years, what we were taught in college. Too often we find that what we heard or read then has been disproved by what has happened since.
For example, we might note the contrast between the membership and the temper of the U.S. Senate today and the comments on that body in James Bryce's classic, "The American Commonwealth," which was required reading a generation ago. It was published in 1893 and a new edition came out in 1910 when Bryce was the British ambassador to Washington.
Bryce said that in foreign policy the Senate in large measure was a considerable restraint upon the President. Certainly that is not true now.
He also said that because a Senate seat attracted abler and more ambitious men, the membership was of a higher order than the membership of the House. Surely, it still attracts the more ambitious, but not necessarily the abler individuals.
The belief of Bryce and the assertion in the Federalist Papers a century before, that the Senate because of the longer terms and greater average age of the members —would serve as a restraint upon the "passions" of the House, are now completely disproved. The Senate today is much more profligate in spending money and in accepting new programs than is the House.
Seniority has had its way in the Senate, and the one-party system in the South has been a great factor which Bryce in his time did not anticipate. Of the 16 chairmen of the standing committees in the Senate, nine are from substantially solid Democratic states and four are from small states. Two chairmanships are held by senators from the state of Washington and one by a senator from Oklahoma.
But on one point Bryce was most prophetic. He said: "A senator soon gets to know each of his colleagues . . . and what each of them thinks of him; he becomes sensitive to their opinion; he is less inclined to pose before them, however he may pose before the public."
This is the most important factor as we consider the respect paid to a senator by his colleagues, in contrast with his public image. Senators generally respect the member who works hard on the business of legislation, who is industrious in his committee work and who creates and sponsors important legislative measures. They do not greatly respect the member who is preoccupied with outside activities for personal exploitation at the expense of regular attendance upon Senate business. There is already a contrast on this scale of values between the Kennedy brothers, Robert and Edward.
Robert, whose presidential ambition is all too obvious, pays only cursory attention to the business of the Senate. He is irregular in attendance, and when he appears at committee hearings it is usually only to badger witnesses and to get headlines for purely negative criticism.
Edward is more diligent and for a junior member has worked hard on constructive projects of his own. In some cases the diligence of a senator in attending to his committee work in Washington permits publicity-minded and ambitious people in the home state to undermine him. One such case was the defeat of Guy Cordon of Oregon, a most useful member, by Richard Neuberger. Sen. Wayne Morse also is a product of this procedure.
The level of the Senate under direct election has declined progressively over the years. Thus, there is a wide difference between prestige in the Senate and the national image that is created by so many of its newer members.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.