Coalitions and Communists
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
If Charles de Gaulle were not so
busy dealing with anarchy at home,
he might take a hand in our
American political campaign. For he
revealed in Canada last year that he
has no hesitation about meddling in
political affairs abroad.
Perhaps if he were to express a
choice among our aspirants for
President, he would no doubt favor
Sen. Eugene McCarthy. Indeed, his
past advice to us has been to get out
of Vietnam.
The French president is not
conspicuous for his consistency except in his own concern for his own
power. He was quite favorable to
coalition arrangements with the
Communists abroad, but he certainly wants nothing of the sort in his
beloved France. He came into power
over there on a wave of discontent
with unstable governments and
popular fronts. And the constitutional changes he imposed were
designed to avoid such governments
in the future.
Back in the 1930s he saw a popular
front in France which provided the
groundwork for the disaster of 1940,
and he came back from his retirement in the 1950s to save his
country from such a catastrophe.
Now his firm stand is to prevent the
return of the old instability.
De Gaulle must be quite aware of
long-term Communist strategy.
In the pronouncements of the
various "Internationales" before
1935, the slogan was "revolutionary
extremism." But as a competent
student of communism, Louis L.
Lorwin, has pointed out, it was
called "popular front" from 1935-39
—that is, co-operation with all
liberal groups. No doubt the inception for that change was the
introduction of a popular front
government in France in 1933. The
main beneficiaries of that popular
front were the Communists, who
won 72 seats in the Chamber of
Deputies in the 1936 election, and in
the government of the Socialist Leon
Blum they won recognition as a
partner of the Socialists.
The Internationale in 1935 called
for the creation of a popular front as
the first step to a Communist
takeover.
The popular front is another name
for a coalition government.
I am not convinced that McCarthy
understands this history when he
advocates a coalition in South
Vietnam with the Viet Cong as a
working partner with other elements. He said in a recent debate
that "we have to have a new
government in South Vietnam. I'm
not particularly concerned with
whether it's called a coalition or a
fusion or a new government of some
kind."
That would be loose talk from a
former professor even if he were not
a candidate for President. And such
an expression is also grossly improper when his own government is
negotiating for an end to the
fighting. For our government in the
Seven Nation Agreement made in
New Zealand this year solemnly
pledged itself with the others
against a coalition with the Viet
Cong in South Vietnam.
The blindness of this would-be
President and thousands of professors and "intellectuals" who support
him is strange when we consider the
more recent history of coalition
governments. They must be familiar
with this history.
In China in the 1940s the Truman
Administration deliberately invited
the creation of Red China through
suggesting a coalition government.
That Communist government is a
present menace to our interests
and security.
And in Laos we seem to have
agreed to a government which is in
fact permitting Communist North
Vietnam to use Laotian territory as a
base against our military forces.
The two worlds, Communist and
non-Communist, are watching our
negotiations in Paris. For if in the
end we yield, as McCarthy suggests,
and agree to a coalition with
Communists in Vietnam, all of
Southeast Asia will become Communist—an end which would be intolerable for every non-Communist
country in or on the periphery of
Asia.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.