The Travail of Modern Campaigning
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In these final, frenzied days of our
presidential campaign we are wit-
nessing the heavy price our political
system is paying for two mechanical
marvels: the jet plane and televi-
sion. These inventions, some claim,
have enriched our civilization. But
so far as they are used in choosing a
President, they have imposed upon
candidates a cruel burden, denied
the electorate the education it
deserves and have actually limited
our choice of a President.
They have utterly transformed
means of campaigning but human
nature has remained the same. We
are a simian breed in which curiosi-
ty is our dominant trait. We demand
that our candidates be seen and
heard and, within limits, felt. Hence
our candidates must race about the
country at a pace that would kill
most normal men. And since the
time decided by law and custom is
still approximately what it always
has been, this mad routine extends
far beyond, what is a reasonable
period for voters to reach a decision.
In those quiet pastoral days long
ago, candidates traveled very little.
All that ended when fast travel by
air came in and television made it
possible to broadcast the images of
the candidates.
So far as education is concerned,
this means a net loss. For the press
is unable to keep pace. There are too
many appearances and too many
speeches to cover adequately.
At this stage millions of voters
must be dazed and confused-even
bored-by what they have seen and
heard during the long months since
January. They will probably vote as
they intended to vote two months
ago. They will be happy when it is
all over-if it is to be all over-on
Nov. 6.
In the years ahead the conditions
imposed on candidates must limit
the number and quality of those
who seek to be President. Those
who choose candidates in primaries
and conventions must guide them-
selves by how an aspirant can
endure a jet-propelled campaign.
Youth, vigor, the attributes of a
long-distance runner will prevail.
How will this or that man project
himself on TV? Very few men of
maturity will offer themselves as
candidates and the inevitable result
will be a lowering of the quality of
our Presidents.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.