Reform of the Property Tax Has
Been Noticeably Unmentioned
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The country has now emerged
from a long presidential campaign
in which at least two candidates,
Richard Nixon and Hubert Hum-
phrey, were aided by considerable
collections of economists and speech
and statement writers. Millions of
words have been spoken or written
for distribution.
And the two important domestic
issues were what to do about (a) our
crowded cities and (b) inflation in
which there is involved federal
revenues and federal spending.
Both of these involve getting more
money to help rebuild cities and to
bring federal revenues more nearly
into balance. In short, they involve
taxation.
But in all this outpouring which so
far as possible was examined with
some care, there is one glaring
omission: there is not a single word
uttered about reforming the property
tax.
True, the property tax is not a
direct federal responsibility, and
both candidates were running for a
federal office.
But neither is law and order,
except in a minor degree, a federal
responsibility. And the problem of
rebuilding cities and the elimination
of slums is a local responsibility.
But both candidates had said a
great deal about the capacity of the
presidential leadership to influence
state and local officers. And in
reality the vast array of federal
programs which extend to state and
local governments bring the President directly into the concerns of
these governments.
Nixon came out solidly for sharing
federal revenues with the states,
perhaps without due consideration
of the practical problems involved.
And also for tax inducements designed to help private capital to
come into local areas for housing
and other improvements.
These proposals may well meet
with serious opposition from House
Ways and Means Chairman Wilbur
Mills, whose word will be law or no
law in tax matters in the next
Congress. And both of Nixon's
proposals will make federal budget
balancing much more difficult.
This brings property tax reform
squarely in line with national policy.
It may be that a reform of the
property tax might not produce new
billions of revenue. But it is a large
element in the economy. It accounts
for revenues over the country of
something like $23 or $25 billion.
But a readjustment of the tax might
contribute toward the capacity of
cities to carry more of the load
which they now find impossible to
carry.
One reform might be to realize
more revenue at the local level by
capturing some of the unearned
profits now reaped by land speculators. This might be accomplished by
some sort of capital gains tax.
Another might be the imposition of
a heavier tax on land held out of use.
*
But the real gain would be to bring
more private capital into new housing and the improvement of old
housing by shifting some of the
assessment from the improvement
to the land.
More and more economists are
looking favorably to such a shift in
the property tax. Prof. Lowell
Harris of Columbia, who is also
research director of the Tax Foundation, says this in a Tax Foundation
publication:
"A shift of the proportions of
property tax could be beneficial.
Suppose that the rate on land values
were three times the rate on
improvements — or other proportions which would not alter the total
revenue for the locality.
"As a start toward reform of a
major tax, one which will continue
to play a large role in our society,
such shift of emphasis seems highly
attractive. The suggestion here is
not to increase the total revenue
from the 'two taxes' but to realign
the proportions.
*
"On the average, property owners
would pay the same amount of tax.
But few would be at just the
average. Substantially higher rates
on land values would induce owners
of low-use land to convert to higher-
value uses. Meanwhile, the lower
tax rates on buildings would encourage replacement of old structures
by new ones, as well as new
additions. The benefits, I submit,
could be highly significant—not
revolutionary, not earthshaking, but
not insignificant."
This view, which is coming into
acceptance by more and more
students of urban problems, makes a
great deal of sense. It should
certainly be considered before more
billions of federal revenues are
pumped into our cities. The way to
induce more private investment in
rebuilding our cities is to make the
tax on improvements less and to
force unused land into use by
heavier taxes.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.