Politics will never lose its fascination so long as elections are unpredictable. Pollsters have been trying for years to destroy that fascination. But despite their efforts, humans remain inscrutable. Wise political managers and their candidates find it more productive to study the nature of the voting population upon which their fate depends and thus to calculate the kind of appeal which will attract support. If they are experienced and intelligent politicians, they will know that the people who make the most fuss and commotion are usually not the ones who decide elections. The disturbers of the peace may get the headlines and plenty of exposure on television. They attract the news media because they are unusual and therefore newsworthy. But if making a big noise were the way to succeed, Eugene McCarthy and Nelson Rockefeller would now be the candidates of their parties. The delegates to the two conventions were, for the most part, seasoned politicians and, ignoring the demonstrations, they voted as they had intended to vote before they left home. No, the people we hear so much about will not be decisive in this election. There aren't enough of them and too many of them cannot or will not vote. The election will be won by what I call the decisive center and what Richard Nixon has called "the forgotten people." In a speech two months ago, Richard Scammon, former director of the Bureau of the Census, analyzed the 75 million people who he expects will vote in November. This, he said, "is an electorate which is relatively affluent. It is not rich and it is certainly not superrich. But it is not poor. The explosion of the working class into the middle class is the most significant sociological trend of postwar America. You can see it now in the explosion of the suburbs and in the building up of what I call an electorate which is un-young, un-poor and un-black." No phrase in this campaign has been so frequently quoted in the press. The removal of the bars to Negro voting has quite legitimately made the black community more conscious of its political potential. And in some states and communities it can be effective if it has leadership which can make sure that Negroes will register and vote. But as Scammon said, 9 out of the 10 people who will vote will be white. We hear a lot about the rising political consciousness of the younger generation. But it can be shown that the percentage of such young-sters as followed Pied Pipers Kennedy and McCarthy who can or will actually vote is very small. Many were underage. Others away in college will lack the incentive to take the trouble, now that their dreams have vanished, to get absentee ballots. Scammon noted that while 11 million have come of age since 1964, the other 90% are still around and only four years older. About 85% of those who will vote in November were eligible to vote in 1960. In 1964 only 2% of those who voted were students. And despite the college explosion that proportion will still hold. In 1964 three-quarters of the voters were 35 years of age or older. Not more than 15% of the votes cast were by people under 30. Moreover, the electorate this year will consist of a larger percentage of women. And in 1960, despite the youthful image of John Kennedy, Nixon won most of that sex. Women, especially teen-agers, love Galahad, but when the older ones vote they prefer Lancelot or poor old King Arthur. Willkie was no youngster in 1940, but he wowed the women. Lincoln may have been right when he said the Lord must have loved poor folks because He made so many of them. But the Lord (we hope) decrees the course of economic growth and under the conditions of the past 30 years the ranks of the poor have been shrinking. Unless we include the dent in the take-home income of the affluent by higher taxes, the government, despite its poverty programs, has not been responsible for the improvement of the poor. That has been the result of economic growth. And it is conceded by all students of politics that the general rule is that the more an individual has to conserve, the more conservative will be his political preferences.