Costly Federal Landholding
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Two months ago in a piece under
this byline titled "Land Poor Ameri-
ca," I called attention to the very
considerable cost to taxpayers of the
vast holdings of land and mineral
rights locked up by the federal
government in the name of conser-
vation. There is a further aspect to
our "exclusionist" conservation poli-
cy which deserves attention now
that Interior Secretary Walter Hick-
el and Congress are considering a
revision of outdated regulations.

While the revenues we get from
this vast wealth are insufficient to
meet the outgo, there is also the fact
that the states in which this
property is located also face a fiscal
crisis. The evidence warrants the
conclusion that those states are
being grossly shortchanged in what
they get from these properties.
Sometime ago, there was created
the Public Land Law Review Com-
mission with Rep. Wayne Aspinall
(D.-Colo.) as chairman. Its job is to
study the greatly confused statutes
governing federally owned land and
resources and to report its findings
and recommendations to Congress
by June 30, 1970. These studies have
been assigned to various agencies,
public and private, some of which
have already completed their re-
ports.
One of them, by the EBS Consul-
tants of Washington, D.C., deals
with "Revenue Sharing and Pay-
ments in Lieu of Taxes."
Each state has some federal
acreage in amounts ranging from
7,551 in Rhode Island to 358,049,170
acres in Alaska. Most statutes
admitting new states have provided
that 5% of the income to the federal
government from the sale of lands
should go to the state concerned.
The states have also profited from
the taxes levied upon property
which passes into private owner-
ship. Special arrangements in lieu of
taxes are made when the federal
government acquires land from the
states, as in the case of the TVA.
But neither revenue-sharing nor
payments in lieu of taxes applies to
the Defense Department, to most
national parks, to lands acquired by
the Bureau of Reclamation or the
lands on the outer continental shelf.
Actually only half of the holdings of
the federal lands generated rev-
enues for sharing with the states.
Because taxes on private property
have risen so rapidly between 1957
and 1966, the great disparity be-
tween returns from federal and
privately owned land has risen a
great deal.
Another aspect of this subject was
revealed in this EBS Consultants
study. Case studies were made in
five states and in 50 counties
scattered over the country. This
indicated the benefits as well as the
costs to local and state governments
of certain federal expenditures bal-
anced against what these federal
properties yield in addition to state
and local revenues. The conclusion
was that the costs exceeded the
benefits by a considerable margin.

But as a general conclusion, the
EBS study said that the whole mass
of federal statutes governing these
federal properties was confused and
outdated, and in many cases actual
administration was not conducted in
line with the intent of Congress.
It was beyond these studies to deal
with the problem of disposing of
some of these properties to private
ownership. But because of the fiscal
pinch, in which all governments find
themselves, a carefully selective
policy of selling some of these lands
might be possible without violating
any of the strictures of sound and
reasonable conservation.
But when this subject is suggested
the reaction is neither sound nor
reasonable. It is an emotional explo-
sion about "selling our heritage" or
"robbing future generations. But
our national fiscal policy of con-
stantly increasing the debt of the
United States is itself a method of
levying a heavy burden upon all
future generations.