Alarming Soviet Sea Power
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
At the moment, our nuclear and,
more specifically, our missile capa-
bility absorb the attention of the
President, the Congress and the
press. This is quite understandable
because the prospect of attack and
response through the great air
spaces suggests a disaster from
which neither the United States nor
the Soviet Union could emerge as a
major world-power.
But in another and seemingly
more remote area, the Soviet chal-
lenge is just as real. That is in the
realm of sea power. But since so many
of us and our representatives in
Congress live in what we conceive to
be land-locked security, sea power is
conceived to be of interest only to
admirals, shipping tycoons and long-
range strategic experts. Moreover,
the development of our well-adver-
tised nuclear-propelled and missile-
armed submarine fleet has induced
many to believe that our Navy, is
now invulnerable.
Adm. Hyman Rickover, who deve-
loped the nuclear submarine, and
Sen. Henry Jackson, who might
have been secretary of defense, have
recently warned that in perhaps five
years the Russians will have neu-
tralized that weapon with their own
submarine fleet. Their advantage
there is 375 to 143. But more im-
portant, their nuclear submarines
now number 65 compared with our
85. And their building capacity is 20
a year. And only last summer one of
our carriers in the Pacific discovered
that the speed of a Soviet nuclear
submarine considerably exceeds that
of our own.
These comparisons, like the debate
over the Safeguard ABM system,
concern only the possibility of
armed conflict. But sea power also
involves comparisons between fleets
engaged in the pursuits of peace.
Economic growth largely involves
commerce over the seas in merchant
ships. And in this area Soviet power
may already be equal to ours. And
its rate of growth is much greater.
The latest and most informative
report on Soviet sea power is a small
book, issued this month by the
Georgetown University Center for
Strategic and International Studies,
Composed by a panel of qualified
experts, this book shows that the
growth of the Soviet merchant fleet
since Khrushchev took power has
been sensational.
This fleet, relatively new and
modern in construction and adapta-
bility for all purposes, plies all the
seas and sea routes of the world. It
consists of dry cargo vessels, tan-
kers, passenger ships, a fishing fleet
(the largest in the world), icebreak-
ers, oceanographic research explor-
ers and so on.
In support of this immense enter-
prise is the new Russian navy. In
addition to the submarine fleet,
there is a large variety of surface
ships excepting carriers. These were
ostentatiously displayed in the Me-
diterranean in 1967 and since then
in the Indian Ocean, where the
Soviets plan to move in as the
British move out. Many of these
surface ships carry missiles for all
purposes.
There is an unpublished article by
Adm. John D. Hayes, a distin-
guished student of sea power, which
has some most significant comments
upon the U.S. Navy. He points out
that much of our Navy is of World
War II vintage. We seem to have
written off the construction of such
modern surface ships as those of the
Russians, except carriers and the
usual complement of ships to sup-
port the carriers.
He says: "The U.S. Navy has paid
little attention to the wartime
protection of trade. It is a Navy
largely dominated by aviation offi-
cers with little experience with
ships other than carriers. A major
portion of its naval capital is
invested in nuclear deterrence." And
as Adm. Rickover shows, so far as
submarines are concerned, we may
soon find this nuclear-deterrence
advantage neutralized.
These comparisons and contrasts,
so far as sea power is concerned, are
largely dependent upon relative
capacities for new construction. The
Soviet system operates in a closed
society and has two advantages. It
need not concern itself with labor
union power in construction and
operation, especially in its merchant
fleet. And the money necessary is
gotten by squeezing domestic-affairs
funds to a minimum. Thus, the very
nature of the two societies is a
determining factor in this as in
many other aspects of national
policy.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.