GOP Must Acquire the Equipment
to Become a Genuine Opposition
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It will take weeks, perhaps months to draw cogent conclusions from the tremendous impact of the Johnson victory. For there must be considered the reactions of Republican party leaders and opinion-makers in the states in which their candidates at all levels went down along with the big majority against the Goldwater-Miller ticket at the top of the ballot.
In the 40-odd states where that ticket lost, there must be considerations of reorganization, reflection on the national issues, a good deal of thought about finding and developing new leaders and new candidates and, above all, serious thought about how to behave as an effective opposition to the Democratic establishment so firmly entrenched in the Executive and the Congress.
★
First of all, let us reject some of the thoughts which leaped into print the morning after and the morning after that. At the beginning we must realize that the two-party system will remain, lop-sided though it may be as measured by voting statistics. The Republican Party will survive.
In our history, parties beaten to the ground in a Presidential election have been left for dead. But they have recovered to fight again. The Republicans lived after the great divide in 1912 and also after the Landon slaughter in 1936.
Corrective victories follow in the Congressional elections two years later, when individuals are eliminated who were swept into office behind a popular President and who never could have won, had their own qualifications been assessed by the voters. Such was the case in 1938, 1942, 1946, 1950, 1954, and 1958.
But something more is needed now than merely to wait for reaction. The movement which was basically a conservative protest against "liberal" government was not equipped to take over power at the national level. The revolution in the Republican Party which triumphed at San Francisco was composed of many elements, few of which were sufficiently experienced or sufficiently unified behind identifiable policies, and which were too destitute of talent to provide the machinery and personnel to govern the nation.
I believe that Goldwater realized this weakness before he offered himself as a candidate. For he is, despite his detractors, a reasonable and realistic individual. But he was, willy-nilly, the leader of a movement and the emblem of the purposes of many disparate elements. He will be blamed for this defeat in thousands of published and spoken comments. But I, for one, will not join in that chorus. He did what he could, with what he had, where he was in this campaign. He made mistakes, as all candidates must. But the weakness of cause was in the constituent elements of his following.
There were irrational irreconcilables within the Goldwater following. The opposition called these people "extremists," and for lack of a better word I accept that characterization. There were those who would abolish the income tax forthwith. Others would scrap the United Nations and break all relations with Soviet Russia. Others would withdraw the federal government from the area of racial relations and leave all authority to the states. Others charged treasonable purposes to everyone in the Democratic administration. Others would scrap the whole Social Security system rather than reform it reasonably.
Despite Goldwater's specific and detailed amendments to those positions, the stigma stuck to him personally.
★
Young people by the thousands joined in the protest and in the party revolution and in the campaign. These young people are invaluable and irreplaceable. But they must study their lessons. For they have been all heart and no head.
Five years ago I wrote more than one piece pointing out this deficiency. And I said further that such "all-or-nothing" irreconcilables were a handicap rather than an asset to genuine conservatism. I even wrote a small book saying this.
In the reconstruction, true and constructive elements in a conservative Republican opposition must be created. It may take two years or more to do this, but it is essential to a balance of the parties and the welfare of the nation.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.