F.D.R.'s and L.B.J.'s '100 Days':
More Contrast Than Similarity
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Several items have recently appeared in the newspaper and magazine press drawing attention to President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the early New Deal years. These have been suggested as newsworthy by (a) the completion of President Johnson's first 100 days' dealings with Congress this year, and (b) the 20th anniversary of Roosevelt's death.
A review of Mr. Roosevelt's Hundred Days and Mr. Johnson's record suggests a few parallels but far more contrasts.
The two periods were alike in only two ways. L.B.J. and F.D.R. were the beneficiaries of smashing victories at the polls in the two Novembers. Both presented ambitious programs to Congress. But here the parallel stops.
★
The objectives were widely different. Mr. Roosevelt was seeking recovery from a catastrophic dislocation of the economic system. Mr. Johnson is seeking to build upon an immense and humming economy the superstructure of a federal welfare state. The Johnson measures were developed in the Kennedy administration in which he played an official part. Mr. Roosevelt succeeded a Republican administration, and his measures were in part lifted from that administration—legislation which Mr. Hoover was either unwilling or unable to prevail upon Congress to enact.
There is a widespread impression that the 73rd Congress was a flock of sheep responsive to every caprice of the Executive. That was not so. Its leading membership in both parties was superior in many ways to that of the present Congress. Mr. Roosevelt's relations with congressional leaders were cordial and cooperative. But he was far more restrained in dealing with Congressional leaders than Mr. Johnson is now.
For Mr. Roosevelt realized full well that they knew much more of what had happened in Washington during the long Republican supremacy than he could have known in private life or as governor of New York.
While there were many messages, the proposals Mr. Roosevelt advanced were in considerable part worked out in Congress. Few were formulated in the White House and presented on a "must" basis.
A brief mention of the most important measures enacted will show the contrast with the Johnson programs.
★
The temporary banking measures were worked out by the hold-over people in the Hoover administration—people in the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, and the Reconstruction Finance Corp.
The permanent banking reform legislation was created by Sen. Glass. The guarantee of bank deposits was added to it by the collaboration of Jesse Jones of the RFC, Vice President Garner and Sen. Vandenberg.
The agricultural program was worked out by collaboration among Henry Wallace, Rex Tugwell, M. L. Wilson, and congressional committee members.
The Securities Act was written in Sam Rayburn's House committee, with legal aid from two young men provided by Prof. Frankfurter.
The National Industrial Recovery Act (NRA) was prepared by Gen. Hugh Johnson.
Relief, except for the CCC, which was Mr. Roosevelt's idea, was a continuation of Mr. Hoover's grants to states.
The Economy Act had been introduced in the preceding Congress, by Louis Douglas, then a House member from Arizona.
★
For the most part, Mr. Roosevelt served to bring these measures before Congress. Except for two or three, these were conservative measures, in nature and sponsorship, quite unlike the major programs of Mr. Johnson.
In general all the early measures of the New Deal were successful not so much because of their direct effect on the economy, but because their number and prominence at that time produced a favorable psychological effect. It was the revival of public confidence rather than government help that produced recovery.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.