The 'Overcare State'
Has Some Drawbacks
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Those who have pondered upon the excessive piling up of nuclear weapons have invented the word "overkill." This suggests that our capacity to annihilate populations has overrun the necessities of defense and modern warfare. But since the money is forthcoming, the stockpile has grown beyond all rational proportions.
I venture to introduce another word for our vocabulary, "overcare." It means that, in our government's anxiety to prove its humanitarianism and also to create an impregnable political establishment, we may be facing an excess of indiscriminate benefits which will corrupt those who receive them beyond redemption.
★
I realize that this criticism of the gigantic welfarism conceived and elaborated by President Johnson will relegate me in the minds of many admirers of the Great Society to that special spot of hell which Franklin D. Roosevelt, citing Dante, said was reserved for the cold hearted. One must, however, consider the ultimate end of overcare, as well as the glittering magnitude of the present prospect. Indeed, I take as my text a line from the Johnson State of the Union message, "The Great Society . asks not only how fast we are going but where we are headed."
Nowhere in that message is there any expression of the necessity for self-help, for state and community responsibility, and for that development of character which is the assurance of national strength.
The first of the centuries of our national life was distinguished not so much by what the government did for the venturesome and self-reliant people who inhabited the country, but by what they did for themselves. We have now apparently reached the vital point at which this order is going to be reversed.
The message to the people of the country is not that the individual should create his own security in an atmosphere of freedom, relying only upon a human government to help when there is real need. The message is that there shall be no distinction between what we want and what we need.
Mr. Johnson has many times in the past rejected a test of need in bestowing government help. In the amplitude of his vision of a Great Society, all shall share, regardless of need. There is nowhere in his message a suggestion that when everything is free, or seems to be free, the number of those who will want to participate in the shower of blessings will swell to unimaginable proportions. That is the eternal weakness of human nature. For our original sin is that we will not strive when there is no necessity to strive.
Education will be had for the asking, from the kindergarten to the Ph.D. The elderly, whether they have the money for their own support or not, will sojourn at government expense in hospitals and nursing homes. Uncle Sam will care for our means of transportation at subsidized rates. And leisure will become a national habit when all the rivers and all the lakes and ponds will be surrounded by grassy glades.
Finally, by the evisceration of the Taft-Hartley Act—which Mr. Johnson himself helped vote into law—the worker will not have the determination of the place and manner of his work, but be subject to the dictates of a union or a cooperating employer.
This program, or series of programs, is not the way to create strong individuals. Mediocrity is the inevitable end of an over-care state.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.