Education Bill Confusion Leads
Only One Way---Federal Control
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The administration-supported omnibus bill on
education (H.R. 2362) passed the House on
March 26 and probably will be approved by the
Senate very soon. But by the time a potential flood
of lawsuits reaches the Supreme Court, perhaps in a
year or two, there will be just as much confusion
about what it means as there was when it was debated in the House.
In judicial practice, the courts rely heavily upon
what they call the "intent" of Congress when a bill is
passed. This "intent" is not always indicated by
what legislators say in debate, for many people offer
many different interpretations of legislation. But very
frequently in Supreme Court opinions there is reference to what is called
the "legislative history" of a bill.
Opponents of the education bill realized from the
beginning that they had little chance of defeating
the bill which emerged from Rep. Adam Clayton
Powell's Education and Labor Committee. And so
they dedicated their efforts to establishing its "legislative history." Two Republican
congressmen, Charles Goodell of New
York and Albert H. Quie of Minnesota, attempted, two
days before the bill's passage, to establish by persistent questioning of the
major sponsors just what the bill was intended to do
and what means were designed to reach that end.
*
The answers they elicited in that debate and the
inescapable conclusions that resulted provide the
most interesting, not to say alarming, reading that has
been printed in the Congressional Record this
year.
In sum, the conclusion of Goodell is amply justified: "All right, then we
have a nice, clear legislative history to proceed
with. Nobody knows what this bill is going to do."
In the first place, the committee's report explaining the bill does not
agree with the terms of the bill. Powell confirmed that
he wrote the report. And so it seems that, what with
all his collateral and extramural activities, he lacked
time to study and understand the bill.
The bill was an omelet composed of eggs contributed by many people. In
the mixture there were pieces of bills introduced
in earlier years by various congressmen, and bits
came from the "progressive" education lists in the
U.S. Office of Education. Some new eggs were broken and put into the pan
in the form of amendments in the committee.
The members of the subcommittee in charge, as
well as Powell, were utterly confused about the
meaning of certain sections of the bill. Under
questioning, these sponsors contradicted each other and contradicted themselves.
The bill was created to provide a compromise
which would bring to its support not only Catholic
members but those who opposed any aid to parochial schools. Apparently,
the "compromise" succeeded, for the debacle of
earlier years was avoided.
But on the basis of an analysis of the bill itself
and the plain probability of what will happen under
the bill's operation, parochial schools will get little
or nothing.
There was always the looming question of constitutionality. For there was
not only the Constitution of the United States to be
considered, but the constitutions and laws of more
than half the states.
★
While Title I of the bill is intended to aid "educationally deprived" children, the other titles are
provisions to thrust federal control into all schools.
Thus, under the crusade to help the poor, a federal
bureaucracy will write textbooks for schools. Under
Title III there will be a new and completely federally supported and directed
system of schools which could by-pass state and local schools. These are
called "model" or "experimental" schools, but
they will provide the beginning of complete federal
control in later years.
The bill is in reality a vast federal invasion of all
public schools. In the name of helping the poor,
a dangerous invasion by federal authority is imposed upon all primary
and secondary education. There is great confusion
about how the poor will be helped, but no confusion
at all about federal control.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.