Braceros Formed a
Free 'Peace Corps'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The denial of the help of bracero labor-Mexican
workers—to California's great agricultural industry
threatens critically serious consequences to the state.
But there are problems in human relationships involved
which are moving and internationally significant.
I have a letter from a friend in Texas who has given
his time and substance for several years to the improve-
ment of the relations between the citizens of his state
and their Mexican neighbors. He is Neville G. Penrose
of Fort Worth.
He says that the termination of Public Law 78, known
as the Bracero Act, has not only greatly injured the
economy of his state but has ended what he calls "a
natural peace corps which costs us nothing."
Long-Established Tradition
Up to the time of the termination of the law permit-
ting Mexicans to spend a part of each year working in
American agriculture, "the going and coming of Mexi-
can labor was just as traditional, but possibly not so
romantic, as the mysterious visits of the swallows of
Capistrano.
"The seasonal flow of this class of labor has through
many, many years been just as normal and as natural as
the flight of ducks and geese which fly South in the fall
and return in the spring."
Penrose says further: "The feeling between American
citizens and Mexican citizens has never been as friendly
as now. I have always felt that the braceros had a lot to
do with this fine relationship.
Aided Nations' Relations
"In their coming and going they generated the finest
and most valuable public relations by returning to their
homes in the humble little villages throughout Mexico—
at the grass roots, man-to-man—telling their friends and
neighbors just what happened to them on their trips to
Texas and other states, telling them waht kind of people
we were, what we did, what we said, how we live. Also,
they would tell what they made in the 'States' and how
they earned it.
"No infrequently the bracero brought back, besides
his pocketful of pesos, gifts to his family and neighbors,
little trinkets to remind them of the United States."
Penrose also recalled the immense economic advan-
tage of labor imported from Mexico in the early years
before the flow of European immigrants through Ellis
Island. These people did the pick-and-shovel work on
the railroads, the highways and building construction in
new and growing cities.
Need Growing Less
Because of mechanization in the United States, the
need for farm labor has decreased in recent years. But
more of this kind of work is now to be found in Mexico,
where a considerable number of American growers
have established large farms. In 1960, 450,000 braceros
came up from Mexico, while in 1964 there were 182,000.
But they were essential to the gathering of the crops in
Texas and the Southwest.
This year there was tragedy for many of these people
when they sought to return and found the way barred.
Many were illiterate and had no radios. They did not
know of the exclusion until they reached the border. So
they had to return home, many on foot, with no money
to help them care for their families in the year to come.
This has been brought about by a regime in Washing-
ton which makes loud noises about the necessity of
winning the good will of foreign peoples by pouring out
billions in aid to nations in which the people them-
selves get precious little of what we send.
It would seem useless to talk about a good neighbor
policy in the light of this treatment of our nearest neigh-
bors South of the border.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.