Jungle War at Home:
Gun Curbs Essential
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
On July 26, J. Edgar Hoover released a document
which should arouse more concern for our national wel-
fare than all the preachments about moral decline in
our beloved country that we have heard in years.
It is "Uniform Crime Reports for the United States—
1964," a statistical compilation gathered from law en-
forcement agencies by the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion.
The report for 1964 shows that crimes of violence took
a big jump over 1963—15%. Aggravated assault in-
creased 17%; forcible rape, 21%; robbery, 12%. That
inevitable accomplice in most such crimes, automobile
theft, went up 16%. Murder increased 8%.
But that is not the most shocking part of the story.
The greatest crime increase was in the teen-age part of
our population—37% of the serious crimes solved by the
police were committed by persons under 18 years of
age.
The increase in criminality cannot all be blamed on
the conditions of city life. Crime in the suburbs was up
13%; in the cities, 11%. And even rural areas contribut-
ed a 9% rise.
Police Pay in Blood
The police have paid in blood in this crime-ridden
country. There were 88 law enforcement officers killed
in 1964, and 57 of them were murdered by vicious crim-
inals. In the period 1960-64 there were 225 officers
killed by criminal action.
Firearms were used in 96% of killings of police, with
hand guns predominating. Altogether, guns were used
in 5,090 killings, in 27,700 serious assaults and 63,700
armed robberies.
Although Hoover has long been calling for federal
restriction on the interstate merchandising of arms and for local
control of intrastate merchandising of deadly weapons,
the subject came to national prominence with the assas-
sination of the late President John F. Kennedy.
On March 8, President Johnson sent a message to
Congress urging legislation to restrict and control the
sale of firearms in interstate commerce. That followed
more than two years of work by Sen. Thomas Dodd of
Connecticut to focus attention on the ease with which
the tools used in crime are distributed and sold.
Dodd is chairman of a subcommittee of the Judiciary
Committee concerned with juvenile delinquency. His
original bill sought to prevent the acquisition of deadly
weapons through a number of regulations.
President Moderate
The President’s proposals were less sweeping. He
asked for legislation to prohibit interstate shipment of
arms except under license by the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, to curb imports of surplus military weapons, to
place stricter curbs on gun sales by retail dealers and to
raise licensing fees. Dodd then introduced a bill carry-
ing out the President’s proposals.
This legislation, with some changes, is now before the
Dodd subcommittee. Dodd has said that the lobby
against his legislation is “one of the most formidable in
legislative history.”
Prominent in this lobby is something called the Na-
tional Rifle Assn. The opponents of the legislation are
troubled (they say) by the constitutional guarantee of
the “right to bear arms.” In reality they are anxious lest
“innocent amusements,” such as hunting and rifle prac-
tice be interfered with.
Even ordinarily sound and conscientious senators
have objected, largely because their states want to en-
courage hunting. But the arguments against strict regu-
lation disregard not only the national interest and safety
but the fact that killing this legislation would contribute
to hoodlumism and criminality.
Thus, the selfish and the soft-headed ally themselves
with the vicious killers and enemies of society. This
unfinished business before Congress is a critical necessi-
ty if our government is to move vigorously to curb the
jungle war at home.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.