Lindsay's Mistakes Are
Rockefeller's Wounds
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In less than three months the mistakes of New York City's new mayor, John V. Lindsay, have created a storm of opposition which may well doom Nelson Rockefeller's chances for re-election.
This is indeed an amazing turn of events. For when Lindsay was elected mayor last November, Rockefeller's prospects for a third term were more than bright, Democrats were badly divided and it seemed that New York might be leading a great revival of liberal Republicanism in the East.
Flushed with their capture of City Hall, Lindsay's merry men have, with the valor of political amateurs, blundered into one controversy after another.
Lindsay, who had never before occupied a responsible administrative job, set about reorganizing the Police Department. He and his deputy mayor, who had been his campaign manager, plunged City Hall into police affairs.
Rockefeller
For good historical reasons—which may seem strange to citizens of other cities—the New York police department has for many years under Democratic administrations been kept clear of City Hall influence. Former Mayor Wagner's four successive commissioners were men highly respected in the community, and the 27,000-man force was the best in the nation.
*
But Lindsay promised, in response to the demands of Negro and Puerto Rican civil rights leaders, to create a civilian review board to investigate charges of police "brutality." Opposition to this and to other examples of interference from City Hall led to the retirement or dismissal of several of the major police officials, including Commissioner Vincent Broderick. Then the vacancies were filled by people who would, Lindsay believed, be more amenable to City Hall dictation. If I am any judge of public opinion, this upheaval has caused bitter regret among thousands of people who voted for Lindsay.
Then, since Lindsay's settlement with Michael Quill's Transit Workers Union was very expensive, Lindsay proposed bringing all the city's transit systems under one commissioner appointed by the mayor. At the present time, under state law the buses and subways are operated by the Transit Authority composed of three members who are appointed for long terms and who are measurably independent of City Hall. There is also the Triborough Bridge Authority, governed by a board of which Robert Moses is the dominating head.
Presumably Lindsay's purpose in including the Triborough Bridge Authority in his transit proposal was to use its profits to meet the deficits of the bus and subway systems. This aroused the powerful opposition of Moses, who, in order to protect the Triborough bond-holders, threatens to carry the case to the courts. The Chase Manhattan Bank, trustee for the bond-holders, also threatens litigation. The transit merger needs the approval of the New York legislature, which at the moment seems to be opposed to Lindsay's plan.
*
Finally, the mayor has proposed a new series of taxes, which also need the approval of the Legislature. Two of the components of this tax package are a city income tax and a tax on stock transfers. The New York Stock Exchange will, it says, respond by moving out of the state.
The political beneficiary of this combination of unpopular actions is Frank D. O'Connor, a Democrat who was elected president of the City Council in November. O'Connor was formerly district attorney of the city's borough of Queens. He is shrewd and extremely personable. He proved his popularity by running far ahead of Lindsay in the November election. His plurality was 427,000; Lindsay's was 125,000.
As president of the City Council he can institute investigations of Lindsay's tampering with the police and of his tax plans. O'Connor is already regarded as the most promising Democratic candidate for governor. Lindsay has created a situation perfectly suited to further his ambitions.
*
Gov. Rockefeller is not too popular in the upstate counties, and with O'Connor cutting deeply into the New York City vote it is difficult to see how the governor can win another term.
Thus, the great Lindsay crusade for liberal Republicanism may well lose the state of New York to the Republican Party for years to come. And Lindsay's blunders will blast his own ambitions to become an important figure in national politics.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.