Lots of Education but
Where's the Teaching?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The output of printed matter dealing with education seems to be unending and inexhaustible. In the New York Times last Sunday I counted no less than 23 articles absorbing 51 column feet of text.
There were articles telling about interviews with college administrators, reviews of books by prominent educators, advertisements of books about education by educators, a review written by one university president of a book written by another university president, news stories about student unrest, interpretative articles about the causes of student unrest, etc., etc.
★
We are told over and over, with many well used educational clichés, about the "revolution" in education and about how colleges and universities are in "transition." And we see those terribly overworked phrases, "new directions" and "new horizons."
In the midst of this great tide of comment there is very little about the most important aspect of education, which is the art of teaching. Most of those who earn a living in education would rather be called educators than teachers.
But without teachers capable of inspiring and directing students, there can be little or no meaning in education. The real crisis is neither financial nor philosophical. It is the growing lack of capable teachers and the constant lowering capacities of the teaching force itself.
The statistics tell us that the enrollment in our colleges and universities has more than doubled in the past 10 years, and the projection is that within a very few years the enrollment will be twice what it is now.
★
A great boom in college building construction is going on. New colleges are springing up everywhere. Already there is scarcely a community which can be listed in the census as a city that does not have a city college. There are county colleges, subdivisions of state universities, junior colleges and specialized institutes—many or most of them relatively new.
College administrators, foundation executives and government officials charged with the direction of education tell us in alarmed tones of the tide of new enrollments, of the need for more and more money for housing and even occasionally of the need for new man- and women-power to take charge of the innumerable new classrooms. But the shortage of available teachers will grow more serious. One figure is that by 1970 there will be need for 35,500 more teachers than the available supply.
To meet this need, teaching salaries are shooting upward. There are more fringe benefits. And there are few teachers these days who have not secured that phantom blessing called "tenure." In plain words, "tenure" means that regardless of the quality of their teaching, they are assured of a life job just as are the judges of a federal court.
But the very people who are supposed to give direction in the meeting of education's needs—the college and university administrators, foundation executives, government bureaucrats and even leading members of faculties—are to blame for this dearth of teaching talent. For they, and they alone, are responsible for what has been called "the flight from teaching."
In most institutions the talented teacher—the person who is capable of exciting the interest and imagination of students, who is capable of filling his classroom with the excitement of discovery—is low on the list of priorities when honors and rewards are given out. Instead there is what is called the rule of "publish or perish." This means that rich rewards are paid to the dull and unimaginative who swell the volume of written work. Promotions are too often based upon the extent to which the faculty member has escaped from his classroom to do research or to write articles and books.
Moley
The federal government has compounded this problem by pouring out vast sums for research projects. Foundations, especially the larger ones, are obsessed with "projectitis." The teacher is given a grant permitting him to spend his time for a year or more in doing something which takes him out of the classroom.
★
The old saw attributed both to Samuel Johnson and George Bernard Shaw that "Those who can, do; those who can't, teach" is now revised to "Those who cannot either do or teach can always write or do research." And the quality of the written work and the value of research can hardly justify the neglect of the need of students for stimulating and inspiring teaching.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.