Wallace Victory Indicates
Next Steps for Alabama
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Many people in New York and
Washington, including some com-
mentators, seem to be puzzled over
what happened in Alabama in the
primary on May 3. This may be due
to the old rule that when people are
fighting for a cause they believe to
be good and holy they are likely to
be blind to the facts and deaf to the
voice of common sense.
This is especially true of zealous
civil rights workers. But the out-
come could be foreseen long before
the primary. I was in the South for
nearly three weeks in April, and the
results were clearly visible at that
time.
★
When I questioned intelligent ob-
servers in Birmingham they said (a)
that the Wallaces would win big, (b)
that Martin Luther King was politi-
cally stupid when he called for a solid
bloc vote from the Negroes, (c)
that since this would consolidate the
white vote, and since there are many
more whites, the Negro gains
would be negligible, (d) that Atty.
Gen. Richmond Flowers by appeal-
ing to the Negro voters directly
would be soundly beaten, (e) that
the Wallace vote would be increased
by many people who wanted to
avoid a run-off primary with Flow-
ers, (f) that practically all Negroes
who were running for local and
county offices would lose and (g)
that the Negro vote, while large,
would be scattered. That is what
happened.
What so many people in the North
fail to realize is that the lines be-
tween the races are more sharply
drawn in the northern cities than in
the South. In political life and in
education there has been strict segregation in the South, and discri-
mination has also prevailed in such
things as housing and the more intimate relations of social life.
In every-day economic affairs,
however, there has been mingling of
the races for many years. The races
of necessity see and know a great
deal of each other. They work on the
same farms and building projects
and in the same factories. They buy
from and sell to each other.
★
Thus, when a white man has held
office in a local community or county
he has made innumerable friends
among Negroes by doing favors or
by generally fair treatment or good
public service. Now that the Negro
has the vote he is much more likely
to give him his support than to vote
for a Negro whom he does not know
well or whom he believes to be incompetent to hold office.
Certainly he is more likely to respond to these human considerations
than to respond to the demands of
civil rights workers and vote according to his race. It has always been
that way in politics, even when no
differences in race have been involved.
One of the remarkable lessons in
this recent primary was the relatively
poor showing of Sen. John J.
Sparkman. While he was opposed
only by three relatively little-known
opponents, he ran behind their combined vote in the big counties of Jefferson and Montgomery — 40% to
their 60.
Sparkman’s Republican opponent
in the election will be John Grenier
who as state chairman did a remarkable job of building up the GOP in
the state. With Rep. James D. Martin as a candidate for governor
against Mrs. George Wallace there
“I hope you’re not letting all this
go to your head, governor.”
Mauldin in the Chicago Sun-Times
will thus be a strong state-wide Republican ticket in November.
Grenier plans to say nothing about
race relations except to deplore bloc
voting by either race. Republican
emphasis will be on the economic
development of the state and opposition has spent its force. The
Democratic administration in Washington. Sparkman has been voting
consistently for all the Johnson
measures, including the rent subsidy
plan. That, as well as many of the
other domestic innovations of the
Johnson administration, is unpopular in the state.
In Alabama and elsewhere in the
South the great civil rights revolution has spent its force. The laws
have been passed by Congress and
are being enforced by federal authority as planned. Resistance has
slowly faded out.
★
The Negro has his rights and now
must learn how to exercise them.
This will take a long time. In the
interim the question is economic opportunities for all, which can only
come to Negroes and whites alike by
the economic development of the
states of the South.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.