Republican political leaders, especially those who will face the voters as candidates in November, are entitled to enjoy a modest degree of optimism. Historical examples favor them. For generally the party of opposition makes gains in the years between Presidential elections. But they should remember 1962 when President Kennedy, by timing his confrontation of Khrushchev just right, produced a crisis that blasted Republican hopes.
L. B. J. is no great authority on history, but he will remember four years ago, and he has all the raw materials at hand to produce a crisis of some kind himself. In such a crisis, voters all rally 'round the Flag and the President who is temporarily its custodian.
For a year or more two issues have been developing for Republicans. One is the wretched war in Vietnam. The other is distressing signs of more money for smaller market baskets. Women don't like that, and they have a habit of telling their husbands when they complain about the food.
The development of this issue is relatively easy because inflation is caused by policies of the federal government, overspending, encouragement of labor unions and foreign aid. Opposition politicians need not be too specific about what spending ought to be eliminated, although the poverty program seems to be fair game.
So far as Vietnam is concerned, the Republicans in Congress are wise in supporting the President's prosecution of the war. Differences about that seem to be a Democratic monopoly. What with the blindness of Fulbright and Morse and other dissidents about American interests, and the obvious intentions of the brothers Kennedy to frustrate L. B. J., Republicans can well enjoy the fruits of the Democratic division.
But here Republicans must temper their expectations. A serious crack-up within China is not an impossible development. Many informed observers seriously anticipate that.
And if it happens, North Vietnam may come to terms. That would be such a stupendous political windfall for the Johnson administration that opposition to the war as it has been prosecuted to date would fade away overnight. The Democrats would once again be a very happy family. Despite the tall talk of Martin Luther King and other Negro leaders and the eager exploitation of the civil rights issue by the Johnson regime, the racial issue is fast fading away so far as political advantage from it is concerned.
Some Northern Republicans still believe that by keeping alive the issue of civil rights they can win many Negro votes in Northern urban communities. I cannot regard that as anything but a vain hope this year.
The great mass of civil rights legislation enacted at the urging of the President is still fresh in Negro minds. Later, perhaps, disillusionment may come. And the vast welfare expenditures are too dear to those who receive the benefits for them to risk giving their votes to Republican candidates.
Too vigorous an exploitation of the racial issue by Northern Republicans might lead to equally vigorous complaints by the new Republican Party in the South. Down there the strategy of Republican candidates is to say little or nothing about integration.
When I visited those states in April there was plenty of complaint by Republican leaders about suggestions, attributed to Thruston Morton and National Chairman Ray Bliss, that the national party organizations might discriminate in its financial support of candidates in the South. That is a serious threat to harmony in the Republican Party itself. In its recovery it cannot afford a split.
The foregoing are realistic appraisals for consideration by Republicans this year. The old conservative-liberal division may have been tempered by moderation. But there may be many a slip before the cup of victory again can refresh parched Republican lips.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.