Holiday Weekends Are
as Safe as Any Others
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Popular opinion is so often wrong
that wise people may well question
any idea that is widely believed.
Why is this true?
People generally may form conclusions based on reports that are
not accurate. Or they may misunderstand the facts. Or their prejudices
may lead them to enlarge some facts
more than other facts. Or they may
be misled by the excessive publicity
on one or a few sensational exceptions to the general rule.
The foregoing considerations
especially apply to the widespread
belief that automobile accidents are
so abnormally numerous on holiday
week ends that the only place to
stay alive is at home in bed or in a
comfortable chair.
In a determination to dissipate
that fear or at least to get the facts
in perspective, the Automobile Club
of Michigan turned loose 25 investigators to get the facts concerning
every one of the 43 highway fatalities over three days—May 28, 29 and
30, 1966. They traveled by cars and
airplanes over the entire area of that
large, populous and auto-conscious
state.
The major conclusions to be
drawn from that survey not only
dissipate the concept that there is
more danger on the roads and highways on holiday week ends, but provide important information which
every motorist should know.
It is well to ponder these facts and
conclusions now that another holiday week end is looming ahead on
Sept. 3, 4 and 5.
There were 25 accidents which
caused 43 deaths. That must be considered along with the fact that an
estimated 2.7 million motorists were
abroad that week end. In proportion
to the traffic, the record was better
than in 1965.
Michigan State Police figures
show that it is usually more dangerous to drive on normal week ends
than over holidays.
No vehicle defects were shown to
have caused an accident, except in
one case where a driver with a
"bald" tire was traveling at 110
miles an hour.
Only six of the deaths took place
in cars that were more than 25 miles
from home.
Drinking was established in the
cases of 10 drivers, with suspicion of
drinking in 17 others. In short, alcohol figured in half the fatal accidents.
Most of the fatal accidents took
place after dark.
In no case were seat belts used.
Seven deaths were not the fault of
automobile drivers. A young fisherman walked into the path of a car.
Two bicyclists caused a man in a car
to drive off the road, killing himself
and his wife. A girl walked out of a
trailer moving 40 miles an hour and
died. Two bicyclists drove into the
paths of moving vehicles. A motorcyclist caused his own death.
Only two deaths were caused by
defects in the roads or in signals.
As always, young drivers caused
more accidents than their elders.
This report has a special meaning
to me because I drove from New
York around Chicago and to St.
Louis on that weekend. I took that
route to avoid delays around Indianapolis where great numbers were
gathering to see the Speedway race
on the 30th. I saw no evidence of an
accident.
I add two observations of my own.
One is that, because of the large
numbers of cars on the roadways
over a holiday, people are compelled
to move at a slower pace.
The other has to do with publicity. Since there is less news to report
over a holiday, the media of news
fill the gap with accounts of auto
deaths. Perhaps this is good because
it warns people to drive more carefully. But the big news of day-to-day
national figures of deaths makes
people believe that holiday weekends are abnormal. If the figures are
examined, the number of accidents,
compared with the cars on the road,
is no more than on any other weekend in the year.
A great deal remains to be done in
preventing accidents. But the main
job is to educate all drivers and to
keep drunken and unfit people from
driving at all.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.