Nixon's 'Availability' Being
Examined for 1968 Campaign
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The word "available," when used
in political speculation, only in a
secondary degree involves the capa-
city of a potential Presidential
candidate to serve the nation. It
involves a score of considerations
other than the man's intelligence,
grasp of issues and experience.
Association with national issues is
far down among the qualifications
included in availability. For votes or
stands publicly taken on controver-
sial issues seriously count against a
possible candidate's availability.
That is why for so many years
governors were preferred as candi-
dates. Their public service, unlike
that of senators, had been limited to
state and local affairs.
Availability also involves matters
little related to qualifications for the
office, such as religion or business
connections. Age may be a factor,
and sometimes health is considered.
And now, since the advent of
television, photogenic image is in-
jected into the decision.
Seasoned professional politicians
know quite well that much of what
is called availability has little to do
with the office of President. Those
professionals have imposed upon
them, however, the tyranny of a
democratic society in which caprice,
ignorance, indifference and superfi-
ciality characterize so many voters.
The problem faced by the profes-
sionals is how to snare as many of
those voters as possible. Their
problem is to elect, not select.
In our democratic society millions
of voters suddenly become experts,
especially now in the 17 months
before the Republican Party chooses
its Presidential candidate. Millions
of Republicans are asking (this
question does not afflict the De-
mocrats because their nominee is
foreordained): "Can he be elected?"
This speculation becomes the staple
fare of dinner-table talk and the
chatter in saloons and clubs.
At the moment it centers upon
Richard Nixon as a potential candi-
date. There seems to be little
question among amateurs and
professionals alike about his com-
mand of the issues and his exper-
ience.
Democratic professionals regard
him in their private expressions as
the one Republican who might if
nominated present a serious chal-
lenge to L.B.J. But with the cunning
of their trade they seek to spread
among their Republican brethren
the contagion of doubt about the
electability of Nixon. They probably
regard George Romney as another
Wendell Willkie or Tom Dewey—
wonderful before the convention,
but ineffective in the campaign later
on.
Republicans who are asking that
question about Nixon's availability
usually supplement their reserva-
tions by saying that he has been
beaten twice, once for President and
then for governor of California. Or
they say, "He has been around too
long." Or that old chestnut, "People
don't seem to like him." Or, "He is
not good on TV."
The same dubious question of
electability is what denied Robert A.
Taft the nomination in 1952. People
said, "He is a fine man and senator,
but he can't be elected."
There was little doubt about his
stature as a senator. He had proved
his electability in his campaign for
re-election in Ohio in 1950. In
retrospect, most would agree that if
nominated, he would have been
elected over Adlai Stevenson and
that had he lived he would have
been a splendid if not a great
President.
Moreover, Taft would have greatly
strengthened the Republican Party.
As it happened, the doubt about his
electability prevailed and Gen.
Dwight Eisenhower was chosen as a
sure winner, although the general's
views on public issues were foggy
and his incapacity as a party leader
permitted an eight-year disintegra-
tion of the GOP.
The same kind of opposition to
Nixon has appeared that denied the
nomination to Taft, but perhaps now
the outcome will be quite different.
There is no conquering general
around on the Republican side. If
anyone is going to get credit for
winning a war, it will be President
Johnson. And if he achieves that
no Republican can win.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.