Social Security Taxes---
An Injustice to Youths
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Although Social Security is an institution created by Congress a mere 30 years ago, its rights, privileges, benefits and cost are regarded as inviolable as our freedoms under the ancient Bill of Rights. No one except a fanatic would suggest its abolition. And the lives and plans of millions are built upon its assurances. Even the tax it imposes upon us is accepted without complaint.
Social Security is inseparable from the structure of American life.
★
But any institution or right, however venerable or beloved, needs an occasional review and frequent amendments. Such a review has been carried out and published by the Tax Foundation, a private, non-profit and non-partisan organization which was, incidentally, created in the same year, 1937, when the Supreme Court validated the act. (50 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City 10020. The price of the publication, "Economic Aspects of the Social Security Tax," is $1.50.)
Since many books have dealt with the benefits of Social Security and with criticisms of its operation, the Tax Foundation review omits these aspects. It also avoids any serious suggestion for reform. It is a factual account of the history and the various tax impacts which it imposes upon individuals and employers.
Congress has amended the original act many times-in 1939, in 1946, in every election year in the 1950s and in 1961, 1962 and 1965. The name of the system was originally Old Age and Survivors Insurance, OASI. Then OASDI when disability was added, and now, with health insurance added, it is OASDHI.
★
The impact of the tax upon industrial employers varies. This is because the Social Security tax is levied upon the lower part of employees' wages. Thus, a company with many workers at a low average annual wage must pay much more in Social Security taxes than a company with fewer, more skilled workers at higher wages. For example, the tax as a percentage of total wages paid in petroleum products and pipeline transportation is much lower than that in textile manufacturing.
This fact-which has been overlooked by members of Congress who have blithely hiked Social Security benefits and taxes because they professed concern for the lowly wage earner-will, as taxes increase, work a hardship upon the low paid and unskilled. For the pressure of economic facts will drive companies to spend more and more to introduce labor-saving machinery. Thus, as in the case of higher minimum wages, efforts to help those who need the most help actually work against those in the low income range.
The Tax Foundation describes a negative effect of the increase in the taxable wage base from $4,800 to $6,600:
"In an industry with high average annual wages, the extra tax liability can amount to as much as $75 per employee (employer's share of the tax alone) and will involve higher amounts in later years as the rate increases.
★
"Some firms will find, for example, that a piece of equipment which lasts for 10 years and saves the labor of 10 men will cut its old-age tax costs by $7,890 more than before the tax changes of 1965. This tax cutting inducement, representing as it does only the employer's share, can make a previously unattractive investment in labor-saving machinery worthwhile."
The inequity, not to say the unfairness, of the tax as it affects individuals is already apparent. For example, a single individual or a working married couple retiring in 1966, after having been taxpaying members of the system since 1937, will have paid old-age taxes amounting to only 21% of what will be received as benefits for the 10 years 1966-1975. But a married man who was required to enter the system in 1956 and retires this year at 65 will, if he lives 10 years, have paid in only 8% of what he will get in benefits in 10 years. But a young man of 21 who starts to work today will, when he retires after 44 years, have paid in $12,000 more than he will receive.
Thus, the young are paying for the old. And before many years these younger people will awake to this injustice and demand a change. And since they will be most numerous, Congress will be compelled to overhaul the whole system.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.