GOP Governors Upheld
the Rule of Common Sense
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
According to one observer, 227
representatives of the press, radio
and television attended the meeting
of the Republican Governors Assn.
on Dec. 9 and 10 at Colorado Springs.
There were 27 Republican gover-
nors and governors-elect attending
the conference. (There will be 25 Re-
publican governors next year. The
two extra were current governors
who will not succeed themselves.)
The 227 literati were for the most
part the hunters. The 27 statesmen
were the hunted.
Certainly the representatives of
the communications media were not
there to report on the problems of
state government. They could learn
about that somewhat complicated
matter from the literature of the
Council of State Governments and
other agencies dealing with state affairs.
No! The hunters were seeking a
story. And the fleshiest morsel for a
journalist is a fight. I do not quarrel
with that reality. Public curiosity
being what it is, concord is tasteless,
conflict is interesting.
★
The hunt for a Republican fission
went on to the end, even to TV's
Face the Nation on Dec. 11 in which
Mike Wallace and Eric Sevareid of
CBS and David Broder of the Washington Post, presumably representing
the nation, faced and interrogated
Govs. Robert Smylie and John
Love, the outgoing and incoming
chairmen of the RGA.
All the GOP governors, both at the
conference and on the TV show, escaped all the Socratic probings of
their pursuers. They have not won
governorships without learning how
to escape press entanglement. All
are professionals, and most are veteran campaigners. And since most
of them shattered their party by internal dissensions in 1964 they have
learned many things:
They have learned that a considerable proportion of the 227
newsmen and newswomen are Democrats who do not intend to change
their preference in 1968, even if
L.B.J. runs to succeed himself.
They have learned, or they have
always known, that the preoccupation of newsgatherers is a conflict.
★
They realized after the 1964 campaign that Republicans can by dissension lose an election before there
is a convention or a campaign. All
Lyndon Johnson and Hubert Humphrey had to do was to replay the
record of what some Republicans
said about other Republicans when
they were battling for the nomination.
But most important they have
come to realize that the blows exchanged between the Goldwaters
and the Rockefellers were matters
of semantics. There was very little
of substance in the terms "liberal,"
"conservative," "moderate," "extremist" and the old cliche "main-
stream of the Republican Party."
Gov. Love made that clear in what
he said at the conference and in his
subsequent TV appearance. During
the past three months I have talked
at some length with Barry Goldwater, Nelson Rockefeller and Richard
Nixon. There is not more than 10%
of the issues facing the country
upon which they differ.
It is one of the oldest manifestations of political practice that when
conflicting personal ambitions are at
issue, those involved never say "I
want the job." Instead, they will say
"He represents old (or new) ideas
which are inimical to the public
weal." And "I propose to save the republic from his heresies."
That is how semantics comes to
override common sense.
Moreover, most of the issues on
which Republicans differed in 1964
have been resolved in Congress. Civil rights legislation, Medicare, aid
to education and other measures
were enacted by a Congress obedient to the winning President.
They are the law of the land.
*
Now there are new issues, but
they are between Republicans and
Democrats. They provide plenty of
room for unity among all Republicans.
And so the Colorado Springs
meeting ended on a note of optimistic unity. The 227 media representatives must now seek to report another
and more vital conflict which
may appear when all governors,
Democrat and Republican, meet at
White Sulphur Springs.
That is the conflict between the
two major parties. That will be
much more real than what might
have been anticipated at Colorado
Springs.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.