Taking a Closer Look at
Our Learning 'Factories'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Now in September, as our prodigious and prestigious factories which call themselves institutions of higher learning clatter with renewed activity, it may be well to have a look at them. In doing so, we may note that not all of our colleges and universities deserve my characterization as factories. As in many other aspects of American life, there is wide variety among these institutions.
There are the immense—measured by budgets, enrollment and physical plants—government-supported institutions at one end of the range. At the other are a handful of fine smaller, privately supported liberal arts colleges and a few universities, by all odds the best that American education can claim. In between are all sorts of institutions, good, bad and mediocre, which for lack of space I cannot enumerate here.
When Lyndon Johnson proposed and Congress enacted the omnibus plan for aid to higher education, it was quite apparent that the President believed education was a fine thing and that, by gosh, all that was needed to make his fellow Americans healthy, wealthy and wise was money—big money.
★
Bigness is a Johnson obsession. A big man, from a big state, big hats, big weddings, big everything. But a glance at the immense government-supported universities reveals big shortcomings. And again because my space is limited, my specifications apply to the state of California, although what prevails there finds likeness in several other states.
It seems to be a general rule that as state institutions grow in size, the attention given to teaching—the real key to education—declines. The administrations of these institutions put a high premium on research and writing. The faculty member’s promotion depends upon what he puts on paper or upon what he produces in a laboratory. The student is left to shift for himself.
But because these institutions attract the least qualified students, good teaching and faculty attention to the students are most critically needed. It is most significant that the student uprisings at Berkeley were largely owing to the institution’s neglect of teaching skills.
California has the distinction of sending more than half of its young men and women to its colleges and universities, which dot the state like post offices or railroad stations. Under law and custom, almost any high school graduate can enter its government-supported institutions.
And so the lazy and dumb and the mischievous are admitted, willy-nilly.
The result is that, while California leads the nation in initial enrollment of students, the dropout is highest in the nation. The state is below the national average in the proportion of those in the appropriate age bracket who graduate from college. But this is not due to any lack of money.
California, according to a reliable student of education there, is paying almost the highest academic salaries in all the world. New and stately mansions are rising on every tax-supported campus. These institutions have everything that money can buy—except inspiring teaching.
And under present rules and standards, the good teacher is penalized and discouraged.
Although when this article appears in print I shall be in England, the following comparative figures are not the result of any survey of my own. I rely for my comparisons upon a study of British education by a notable California educator, George C. S. Benson, president of Claremont Men’s College.
Benson reported that while we send a third of our young people to college, the British send far fewer in proportion. He says: "Great Britain has 32 universities. The California state colleges have, I believe, almost as many college students as all British universities."
Benson adds that the faculty-student ratio in Britain is 1-8, while in the U.S. state institutions it is one faculty member to 15 or 20 students. Oxford pays salaries about half those at Harvard, but does a much better teaching job.
And so a plethora of money is no solution for student deficiencies. There is no substitute for a good teacher.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.