The Writing of History
Is a Job of Re-writing
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It has been said that if you don't
like the weather in Chicago, wait an
hour and Mother Nature will provide something else.
It is that way with the writing of
history. A book will appear excoriating some personage. You may not
agree and, if you live in London,
New York or Los Angeles, you will
write a "letter to the Times." But if
you choose to wait, another history
will appear exonerating and exalting your hero.
★
History writing has its own built-in method of reappraisal. That is the
contention of the defense in a suit
brought by Helen Clay Frick, who is
the daughter of the late Henry Clay
Frick, the famous Pittsburgh steel
manufacturer.
Dr. Sylvester K. Stevens is the
author of a book on Pennsylvania
history. His appraisal of Henry
Clay Frick was highly unfavorable. Miss Frick
brought suit in equity in a Pennsylvania court, demanding the suppression of the
book. She claims that "false" statements were made
in the book from which she has suffered an injury to
her reputation.
The Pennsylvania judge apparently took jurisdiction of the case
and last year heard considerable
evidence. His decision is still pending.
★
Meanwhile, Dr. Stevens and a
committee of reputable historians
have employed Simon H. Rifkind, a
former federal judge and distinguished lawyer, to bring an appeal
in federal courts on the ground that
suppression of the book would be in
violation of the rights guaranteed by
Amendments 1 and 14 of the U.S.
Constitution. The specific issue involved is, however, broader than
free speech. It goes to the competence of courts to pass judgment
upon the accuracy of a book or the
conclusions which it expresses.
This case, it should be understood,
is not an action under the libel laws.
The old British rule was that, since
libel involves damage, it cannot be
claimed in the case of a dead man.
The general position of Dr. Stevens is that the courts are not
equipped to render judgments regarding the truth or untruth of his
statements about Frick. Judges and
juries have neither the training
nor the access to the materials to
render a judgment. Because the alleged damage involves the reputation and standing of a descendant, it
is hypothetical and cannot be materially evaluated.
The issue presented is whether
evaluations in history books are subject to correction in the realm of history writing itself. That field is an
open forum in which anyone is at
liberty to speak or write. Miss Frick
might better have chosen someone
to write another book, presenting
the facts as she knows them and, in
effect, answering before the world
the animadversions of Dr. Stevens.
★
For historians are notoriously a
predaceous lot. They create their
product by absorbing what other
historians have written. And nothing is more certain than their disposition to destroy an opinion or thesis
upheld by a predecessor historian.
When I was a student, my history
teacher's generation was busy revising the versions of American history
written in the era of George Bancroft. The "founding fathers," a term
used contemptuously by the revisionists, were stripped of their glory
and revealed as coldly calculating
businessmen. The mood of the Progressive Era regarded the post-Civil
War men of business as "robber barons." And this applied to every successful businessman whose operation were larger than a livery
stable.
*
More recently, the revisionists
have been revised. The makers of
the Constitution came through more
truly as great masters of statecraft
and the pioneers who built our industrial empire as creators and benefactors.
The history profession has its
journals, reviews and commentators,
and these are more likely than not to
take exception to the judgments by
Dr. Stevens of Henry Clay Frick.
It is to the historical court of review and not to judges and juries
that Miss Frick must appeal. As
President Coolidge remarked when
his attention was called to a "debunker" of the Father of this country:
"The Washington Monument is still
there."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.