It was my unsought and unwanted
fortune to witness, in part at least,
what had been advertised as a
"mammoth protest against war" on
Saturday, April 15, in New York.
What I saw and learned later from
the press and television provoked a
number of reflections. All of these
support my earlier conviction that
the character of such weird expressions of opposition to the war in
Vietnam increase rather than diminish support for the President's
determination to pursue his present
course.
To begin with, the size of the
march was far below the expectations of the people who promoted
the show. We were told that the
"mobilization" would be from 100,000 to 400,000. Since the protestors
at the gatherings at each end of the
march were mixed in among onlookers, amateur photographers and
counterdemonstrators, it was impossible to make an estimate. But the
total was hardly more than the
minimum indicated above.
Stokely Carmichael and Floyd
McKissick and other firebrands
must have been disappointed. For
there were no more instances of
disturbance than occur on election
night on Broadway.
Moreover, the affair proved conclusively that the efforts of Martin
Luther King, the pediatrician Dr.
Benjamin Spock and Carmichael
and McKissick to fuse opposition to
the war with civil rights has been
not only a blow to both causes, but a
dismal failure.
A large majority of the marchers
were unkempt young white Americans, including a large contingent
from what is known as the East
Village.
The section is inhabited largely
by people who have by common
consent resigned from civilization.
Their garb proclaims their voluntary poverty, and hairy adornment is
their badge. Their "pads" are their
dwelling places of futile anarchy,
and their inspiration comes mostly
from drugs, coffee and rambling
talk.
As I walked down Madison Ave.
that morning on my way to my
office I noted, pouring through the
cross streets from the middle-
income and well-kept areas east of
Park Ave., a host of young people of
high school and college age. Boys
and girls were draped over each
other as they walked.
Here and there were crude signs.
Some had their protest painted on
their clothing. These are not the
product of poverty. The permissive
homes from which they come are
able to send them to school, feed
them and, if they are inclined, see to
it that they are kept reasonably
clean and decently clothed.
Clearly, this singular kind of dress
and behavior is an infection bred in
the East Villages of our great cities.
In Central Park there were various
rituals, including what was called
draft-card burning. No one could
know whether these bits of paper
were or were not actually draft
cards.
It is probable that for every person
in New York who saw the show,
either live or on television, who
might be persuaded to oppose the
war, 50 or 100 were repelled by the
character of the demonstration. One
comment was, "If these people are
against Johnson, I am for him."
And so this mob is what the
antiwar brains—if there are any
brains—use to sway public opinion
against the President and to tell
nations, including Communist regimes abroad, that the people of the
United States are opposed to the
war.
Martin Luther King, the apostle of
nonviolence, linked arms with those
inciters to violence, Carmichael and
McKissick. And that fraud is the
subject of encomia and respect by
some who write and speak from
responsible newspapers and pulpits
in the East.
Eugene Debs was silenced for far
less in another age. But that was in
an age of innocence. Marches then
were imbued with patriotic fervor.
But this demonstration comes after
what we delude ourselves to believe
is a half-century of progress and
enlightenment.