Speculation---Create It
Cheaply, Sell It Dearly
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The fame which has come to a few
nationally televised news reporters
has no doubt played tricks with
their judgment, especially their eva-
luation of their role in the political
life of the nation. This is well shown
in "Capable of Honor," Allen Dru-
ry's satirical portrayal of a cam-
paign for the Presidential nomina-
tion.
A character in that novel is
Frankly Unctuous, the anchor man
who presents on his program Walter
Wonderful, a columnist king-maker,
to fill in gaps in the news with parti-
san talk.
But the responsibility for several
television reporters who might be
Frankly Unctuous goes back to the
proprietors who pay the salaries of
our companions during the news
hour and reap the profits from the
lush advertising budgets of the
sponsors.
★
A barrage of criticism of the pro-
grams of the three major networks
on the recent election night bestirred
William S. Paley, chairman of CBS,
to make a sort of reply on behalf of
his network.
He made no acknowledgment of
the errors and ridiculous projections
which CBS gave the viewing public
under the flossy guise of news. Instead, he assailed the critics as
"Monday-morning quarterbacks."
As the New York Times commented
on his statement, he proposed an ef-
fort "to adapt elections to television,
a classic example of exalting the
means above the ends."
The criticism of the show put on
by the networks during the evening
of Nov. 8 and the early morning of
Nov. 9 was valid, but it had origins
far back, after the travesty of 1960
when the networks, with a gaudy
display of computerized projection,
announced the certain election of
John F. Kennedy hours before the
polls were closed in the western half
of the nation.
On that memorable evening, one
of the major networks proclaimed,
with the aid of computers, that the
chance of a Kennedy victory was 333
to 1. When, after the election, I
directed an inquiry to NBC why and
how that figure 333 was chosen, a representative of the company said
that 333 was the highest the computer could count.
★
At that moment before the lights
were on in the streets of Los Angeles and San Francisco and only
scattered returns were available in
the East, any observer knew the
election was the toss-up it proved to
be. And to this day a fair appraisal is
that Richard Nixon's majority was
thrown into the Chicago river or
scattered in the rural counties of
Texas.
Computers can only turn out
material which has earlier been fed
into them. According to the later explanation of at least one of the networks, the calculators had loaded
their monster machines with "data"
provided by professors and other
"experts"—empirical facts about the
character of the population in certain regions, such as racial and national origins, level of income, debt
and employment and previous election statistics. This was on the assumption that there is no free will
and that voters register their
choices according to their economic,
social and hereditary station in life.
In short, that people are robots.
Instead of learning from the mis-
calculations and misrepresentations
of 1960, the networks—with six
years to learn and millions to spend—merely invented another gambit
in 1966. This was to call pollsters by
the fancier name "analysts" and carry on with voting "analyses." That
gross mistakes were registered was
again proved when the final votes
were counted. But Paley seems to
assume that there had been no earlier critics and that there had been
no fault in the show.
The networks are still moved by
the insensate demand of so large a
proportion of the public to know
what will happen before it happens.
I am assailed by almost every person
I meet to predict whom the Republicans will nominate in 1968.
Only last week a group of professors high in the ranks of economic
analysts insistently plied me with
that question. My only answer is
that I am not only a political writer,
but a student of history. The time,
the facts and chance may nominate
any one of many. And of that many,
some are not in the news at all. The
networks haven't that sort of journalistic conscience. Their interviewers are still asking that silly question.
Speculation and prophecy require
no homework, no firsthand examination of fundamental trends and no
study of history. But speculation
and prophecy are cheap to create,
and they bring high prices. The networks still sell such products.
All we can assume is that they
will learn nothing in two years, and
in November, 1968, they will once
more excite, but not instruct the
viewing public.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.