Autopsy Report on GOP, 1964
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
After every Presidential campaign
much more is written by the losers
than by the winners. Perhaps this is
because the losers have time to
spare. The intraparty conflicts suppressed in the campaign are given
the air.
Indeed, quite a literature has
appeared on the campaign of 1964.
Some of the titles are Stephen
Shadegg's "What Happened to
Goldwater?", F. Clifton White's
"Suite 3505", and Karl Hess' "In a
Cause That Will Triumph."
There is also an impartial and
important analysis in "The New
Methodology: A Study of Political
Strategy and Tactics," issued by the
American Institute For Political
Communication (422 Washington
Building, Washington, D.C. 20005).
The best account of that campaign,
however, is Theodore H. White's,
"The Making of the President, 1964,"
a fine and permanent contribution
to political literature.
Clifton White is very critical of
what he calls the Arizona Mafia who
took over the campaign after the
nomination. He had successfully
managed the draft Goldwater movement and felt that Denison Kitchel,
Dean-Burch and, to a lesser degree,
Richard G. Kleindienst summarily
relegated him to a minor role in the
campaign.
The payoff on a campaign and an
organization is the election. And
when the election is lost there is
open season for criticism.
My own knowledge gained as an
observer justifies my conclusion
that, considering all the circumstances, Kitchel and Burch did a good
and conscientious job. Not even a
Mark Hanna, a Will Hays or an
Edward. J. Flynn (Franklin D.
Roosevelt's major strategist) would
have won with a tragically divided
party and a candidate who had been
unmercifully and unfairly smeared
by members of his own party before
the nomination.
A major complaint in the Shadegg
book was Goldwater's decision to
separate the people who determined
the issues and participated in the
speech writing, designated by him as
the "think tank," from the "nuts and
bolts" political managers both in the
Goldwater organization and in the
various states.
In October, 1963, I wrote a lengthy
memorandum to Goldwater suggesting that there be assembled a group
of people familiar with the issues to
plan and formulate in draft speeches
what he proposed to present in the
campaign. I said that this group
should report directly to him
through a leader and not to the
political management.
This principle of organization was
established and worked successfully
in Mr. Roosevelt's first campaign in
1932 and was followed in all the
succeeding Roosevelt campaigns. It
was also the pattern in the Tom
Dewey and Dwight Eisenhower
campaigns.
I have no criticism of what the
"think tank" did, for I was not
sufficiently close to the campaign to
form a judgment. My final direct
contact was shortly after Goldwater
announced his candidacy at the turn
of the year. I entreated him not to
enter the New Hampshire primary.
This is attested in both Theodore
White's book and by Shadegg. Indeed, Goldwater himself told it on
television later.
It is interesting to note in reply to
Shadegg's belief in "nuts and bolts"
people that it was a very practical
politician, Sen. Norris Cotton, who
persuaded Goldwater to ignore my
advice. He went to New Hampshire,
with the disastrous results that
everyone now knows.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.