Why the Presidential Ambition?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Ike Hoover served as usher in the
White House for many years. Early
In F. D. R.'s Administration—
probably in 1933 or 1934—in a
reminiscent mood, he told me of the
impressions he had formed of the
Presidents he had seen come and go.
He said that he had never seen a
President leave that famous residence (1) who did not want to
return and (2) who was a happy
man.
This verdict applied to nine
Presidents from Harrison to Hoover,
all of whom he had served.
Two of them, McKinley and
Harding, met unanticipated deaths.
One, Wilson, was stricken with
hopeless paralysis. Two, Taft and
Hoover, were forced to leave because they were defeated for re-election. Cleveland, Taft and Hoover
had been frustrated by divisions in
their party. All had aged prematurely in their service. T. R. and
Coolidge had rejected renomination,
but T. R. no doubt expected to
return. Coolidge was destined to live
less than four years. He was only 60
when he died.
When Franklin D. Roosevelt was
running for a fourth term in 1944
and the deterioration of his health
was made obvious, I calculated the
average age at death of all who had
served as President. The average
from Washington to Buchanan was
over 70 years. From Lincoln to 1944,
it was 63. F. D. R. lived only a few
weeks after his 63rd birthday.
Thus, the general trend toward
longer life expectancy in this century was reversed in the case of
Presidents. The conclusion was inescapable that the growing burdens of
the presidency over the years were
responsible for shortening their
lives. There were increased perils,
too, because in those years three
Presidents were assassinated.
These calculations on longevity
made in 1944 must be revised, now
that Hoover, Truman and Eisenhower have lived beyond the earlier
average. But the growing burdens of
the office are still manifest.
Why, then, should so many seek
such an office whose questionable
rewards are unhappiness, frustration and, since four Presidents have
been murdered in the past 102 years,
mortal peril?
★
At the same time I suggest the
additional fact that a score or more
of our American statesmen have
permitted their frustrated ambitions
to be President to blight their lives
and deny them the happiness which
might have rewarded their considerable attainments.
A man who visited one of the
seekers of the presidency several
years ago commented to me that he
was reminded of Herman Melville's
Captain Ahab, who sacrificed his
happiness and his life to find and
kill the Great White Whale.
It is useful to search for an answer
from the aspirants themselves. One
of them whom I knew said that he
did not know "why anyone should
seek the presidency in times like
this." But his comment meant
nothing, because he was, in fact,
seeking it at that very moment.
Others have said "the office should
seek the man." But they were at the
same time vigorously presenting
their qualifications. Others say they
want to serve their country. But
that rationalization is nourishment
for the birds.
I can only leave it to expert
students of human behavior to
explain the puzzle of human ambition. My contribution as a reporter
is limited to a recital of the facts.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.