Battleship Reactivation Order
Caps Years of Naval Prodding
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
After months and years of pleading by high-ranking Navy officers, Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara has finally ordered the great battleship New Jersey recommissioned for action off Vietnam. No one seems to know the reason for the deplorable delay. Even Armed Forces Committee Chairman Sen. Richard B. Russell said in April, "For the life of me, I cannot understand the adamant position of the Department of Defense against this additional capability." And if he didn't know, all the rest of us can only guess.
Four-and-a-half years ago, in January, 1963, Vice Adm. John S. McCain argued for the use of this immense source of fire power in the U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings. In 1965, George Fielding Eliot argued for naval gunfire in the same journal. Also in that year, Lt. Col. J. B. Soper of the U.S. Marine Corps contributed an article on the subject. And a year ago Soper reiterated his argument at length in the Proceedings journal. Last March a former chief of naval operations told me that the reactivation of battleships was to be decided at the Guam conference. In April, Sen. Russell argued for the battleship in a Senate speech.
*
But apparently only the familiar "cost-effectiveness" study was ordered by McNamara, and that prompted Hanson Baldwin to write in the New York Times in May that the New Jersey was to be reactivated. There was little need for such a long "study." The Navy people knew what was needed, and if work had been started the ship could be in action three months from now. As it is, nine months will elapse before the big 16-inch guns will be pounding at targets in Vietnam—500 to 600 of which are within range.
In Soper's article September, 1966, one reason for the delay is suggested. Apparently the McNamara "experts" have been planning a new super rocket ship, the Landing Fire Support ship (LFS), with all the research, development and experimental costs involved. In effect, it would combine the capabilities of the present rocket ship and the cruiser. But it is still only partially planned. Meanwhile, the battleship with its proven effectiveness has been idle.
A battieship of the Iowa class will need only the removal of its plastic cocoons and oils, the addition of supplemental wiring systems and modern radar equipment to make it ready for service. It is bought and paid for, and there is plenty of ammunition. In such a ship a full complement of personnel is not necessary, for it would in effect be a floating battery and would not need to be equipped to fight comparable ships of the enemy.
The New Jersey is equipped with nine 16-inch guns, 16 five-inch rifles and antiaircraft weapons. The big guns can hurl 2,000-pound projectiles more than 24 miles, and Sen. Russell says that some experts declare that with modern propellants this range can be 40 miles.
Unlike aircraft, the battleship is deterred neither by bad weather nor night. By taking over targets now under air attack, the terrible and continuous loss of air crews and planes could be greatly lessened. A glance at the map shows that a battleship standing off the coast of Vietnam could smash almost all the vital roads and railway lines from the North, for much of the narrow neck of Vietnam would be exposed to 16-inch fire power.
*
It is possible that McNamara would not have activated the New Jersey even at this late date except that Hanoi is building a series of concrete installations along the coast of North Vietnam. These could provide for weapons that could endanger the shorter-range ships of the 7th Fleet. Whether these weapons are to be long-range artillery or surface-to-surface missiles seems to be unknown to our government. These installations could be easily destroyed by the guns of a battleship. This makes the delay in bringing out 16-inch fire power still more deplorable.
The battleship seems to have nine lives. Several times since the 1920s it has been regarded as obsolete and then has been used again to perform its mission: the support of ground forces in combat.
The "experts" are planning complicated ships for tomorrow. But the long guns of the New Jersey are needed in Vietnam—today.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.