The 'Yes, But---' Republicans
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When our country is at war no
political party can afford to claim a
monopoly on patriotism. And since
under the Constitution the President is responsible for the conduct
of the war, it is wise for the
opposition party to support him.
Public opinion follows the sense of
those homely axioms, and for that
reason, if for no other, political
prudence demands part conformity
to what the people believe to be
right. All our history supports those
axioms.
I have some misgivings about
expressing these views in a political
context. For, wholly aside from the
question of political advantage, the
simple virtues of patriotism and the
national and the free world's self-
interest should challenge every
American to support the war in
Vietnam.
*
It is essential to all of us that
Communist aggression in Southeast
Asia shall not prevail. But I am
expressing here only the basic
proposition that a great majority of
Republicans have articulated
through leaders and policy committees. In supporting the President
they are not only morally but
politically right. The Republican
Party cannot afford to tell Hanoi
that, if a GOP candidate is elected in
1968, it can have peace on its own
terms.
But there are some Republicans
who choose to plant one foot on the
firm ground that we cannot withdraw from Vietnam while they place
the other foot close to Democratic
critics of the war, such as the
Fulbrights, the Morses, the McGoverns and a number of Democratic
academicians and clergymen.
Two of the "yes-but" Republicans
to whom I refer are Sens. Thruston
Morton, a power in the GOP, and
Charles Percy, who, despite his
short novitiate in politics, is sometimes suggested as a compromise
candidate for President in 1968.
After Gen. William Westmoreland
spoke before the Associated Press,
Morton assailed the President for
bringing the general home and
claimed that this was to stifle
dissent, presumably Democratic dissent. He called it "verbal overkill."
He challenged the general for
expressing exactly what Morton is
defending—the right to dissent. The
general was dissenting from the
dissenters.
Gen. Westmoreland performed a
most useful service not only in
bringing out the facts about the
progress of the war, but in inspiring
all of us with an account of the
morale and determination of the
troops under his command.
Since he has access to captured
documents, captive prisoners and
defectors, he is the best person on
our side to tell us of the impact of
Hanoi's belief that there is opposition to the war here at home.
Hanoi's will to persist centers in
that belief. It is something we
should know, and it should be a
guide to our words and conduct.
The day before Gen. Westmoreland spoke, Sen. Percy complained
on a television interview that as a
senator he had been unable to learn
from the Defense Department of any
requests from Gen. Westmoreland
for additional troops.
To comply with such a request
from a senator other than the
chairman of the Armed Services
Committee would be an intolerable
revelation of military plans. For
senators are traditionally very leaky
vessels. Percy's further suggestion
that such information should be
discussed by Sen. J. W. Fulbright's
Foreign Relations Committee was
pure naivete.
His presumption was compounded
when he voiced strong objections to
the bombing of enemy airfields.
That is a matter for the President
and his military advisers to decide.
It is none of the business of senators.
But Percy's complaint will be interpreted in Hanoi to indicate that the
United States lacks the courage to
protect its own Air Force.
The Republican Party and all its
responsible leaders must realize that
in the many months before the 1968
election this war may take a decided
turn for the better or even result in
bringing Hanoi to terms.
There was never a war in our
history in which opposition at home
was more vehement than "Mr.
Madison's War" in 1812-15. But
Jackson's victory at New Orleans
not only cemented the hold of the
Virginia Dynasty on the Presidency,
but destroyed forever the Federalist
Party of opposition.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.