Tax Practices Subsidize Slums
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
I have waited to comment on the
Negro riots—especially in Newark
—until the first tidal wave of
published comment has spent itself.
For every sort of reformer has
contributed suggestions, of infinite
variety, and much of what has been
said is unsupported by any intimate
knowledge of the unfortunate or, if
you wish, the guilty cities themselves.
In Newark, the problem of slums
has been known for many years.
The files of the Newark public
library are crammed with material
on the subject which runs back to
the turn of the century. The old
Third Ward was the center of public
interest long before there was any
considerable migration of Negroes.
*
The blight was there. The Negroes
from Harlem and the South simply
moved into its midst. Areas decayed
by neglect compelled a lowering of
rentals, which invited the influx of
impoverished Negroes. And such
cheap living quarters drew inhabitants who were too ignorant to
realize that there was also a low
limit to employment opportunities.
Nor have the problems thus
created lacked recognition by people
and institutions whose business is to
study and contrive solutions. Three
or four years ago some people in
what is called the Urban Studies
Center of Rutgers University conducted, with aid from other institutions, an intensive study of the
slums, largely centered upon housing in the urban area of which
Newark is the center. The result is a
book, "The Tenement Landlord," by
Prof. George Sternlieb, director of
the project, published at Rutgers
last year. The major center of
interest is housing.
*
Welfare expenditures in Newark
increased in the years 1941-1963 by
400%. Public assistance to the poor
rose nearly six-fold in 20 years. The
conclusion is clear. A mere poverty
program is simply a palliative. It
solves nothing.
Taxation is far more important.
For it goes squarely to the basic
questions of the return to landlords
on their properties, the rental costs
to slum dwellers and, what is most
important, the lack of inducement to
private capital to invest in improved
housing.
Sternlieb shows that over the past
20 years the Newark tax rate per
$100 of valuation has more than
double. But the broad impact is not
the real question. The vital point is
that assessments and the consequent tax burden rise only when
owners improve their property.
Here Sternlieb produces incontestable evidence which justifies his
conclusion: "In the face of rent level
plateaus, the increasing level of the
tax rates, which Newark and many
other municipalities have found
necessary, has reduced the profitability of slum investment." In simpler
language, he says, "The typical
landlord response has been to reduce maintenance and avoid additional investment."
In even simpler language, the
conclusion is that present assessment and tax rates slap a penalty on
the owner who improves or rebuilds
his housing. And since that is true,
the landlord receives a subsidy
when he permits his property to
disintegrate.
Robert Kennedy will discover, if
he digs deeply enough, that private
capital will not rebuild slums so
long as this penalty on building
remains in the laws and practices of
our states and cities.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.