Today, the Resplendent Debtor
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In the decade before World War I there was a group of historians who interpreted American political life as a perennial struggle between debtors and creditors. That issue was predominant in the decisive campaigns of 1800, 1828 and 1896. In the first two, frontier farmers, always in debt, successfully revolted.
In 1896, populism captured the Democratic Party, but lost to the Republicans. The objective of these debtor revolts was more money—easy money. Through inflation, debtors sought the Promised Land.
But despite those debtors' uprisings, thrift remained a cherished virtue in our society. Mortgages on home or farm or small business were "plasters," to be eased or patiently endured. Those who bought "on tick" at the store were regarded with some suspicion. Always to pay in cash was regarded as an honorific habit suitable for plenty of bragging to children and friends.
But in the past 50 years there has been a revolution in the public image of the debtor. This change is the subject of a most interesting report by the Home Economics Bureau of the Northwestern National Life Insurance Co. Debt, the report says, is now a status symbol. "Like Santa Claus, (it) is a source of good things . . . a skyway to continuous prosperity."
Leading the resplendent march of debtors is good old Uncle Sam. He owes 109 times what he owed in 1917. Following him are the mortgagors, who owe 30 times their debt of 50 years ago. And installment buyers are 50 times more numerous.
Following this triumphant march, enchained by their own thrift, are the creditors: the people who own bonds, government or corporate; mortgagees who have invested in the other fellow's needs; depositors in savings banks. Everyone with a fixed income, even those who live on Social Security, although they are occasionally relieved by arts of Congress. For inflation in the new era is as inevitable as the cycle of the seasons.
The trend is whipped up now by those erstwhile guardians of "sound" money, the big bankers. They have caught the credit-card infection. A short while ago Chicago banks emitted a veritable downpour of credit cards. Practically none of the recipients had asked for them. Some homeowners found a dozen in their mail, even duplicates from the same bank.
Bankruptcy used to be a tragic event that afflicted only businesses that "failed." Now business bankruptcies are relatively what they were 50 years ago. But now 11 of 12 petitions for bankruptcy are personal.
Case studies show that half of the employe bankrupts could, if they would, pay their debts in two or three years. Four-fifths of them will be back in financial trouble within three years. But why bother to sweat it out and by work and self-denial pay the debts? The courts are open and the slate can be swept clean.
The social stain of bankruptcy no longer exists. It is merely an incident in a "full" life.
I doubt if we shall ever again have a debtor uprising in our political system. If we do it will be overwhelmingly successful. For most Americans are populists now, if they understand a bit of economics. Thrift belongs to that category which John Kenneth Galbraith contemptuously calls "the conventional wisdom."
And big bankers, once the valiant defenders of "sound" money, are creating debtors with all the devices of modern advertising.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.