Rising Crime Is an Immediate
Problem and Needs Answer Now
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In the time you spend reading this
newspaper-unless it is the Sunday
edition and with due adjustments
for the time of day in which you
perform that civic duty-four or
five automobiles are stolen in New
York City. If you use the crime
statistics in your own city, you can
apply that sort of measurement
where you are. The total of auto
thefts in the nation is staggering.
And, among other serious consequences, that is why your insurance
is so costly.
I use the New York figures here
because the 1967 statistics have just
been released. Mayor John Lindsay
sought some consolation last year
because he said that the police
EXPECT INCREASED AMOUNTS
OF REPORTED CRIME
FOR THE NEXT SEVERAL YEARS
Round and round they go,
where it stops
Pletcher in New Orleans Times-Picayune
commissioner had instituted a new
system of crime reports in 1966 and
they were not comparable with
other years. But now we have a
comparison with 1966, and the
calculation is deplorable.
In the last six months of 1966 there
were 25,904 auto thefts in New York
City. In the same period in 1967 the
figure was 34,828. That increase of
34.5% was the highest of all the
crime categories.
It has been almost a year since the
President's Commission on Law
Enforcement issued its 340-page
report. That report was full of long-
winded discourse about the sociological and economic causes of rising
crime. But the remedies proposed
for such alleged causes-if, indeed,
they are remedies-would require
years and years of reform. One
remedy, for example, was birth
control, proposed perhaps on the
theory that the lawless multiply
faster than the virtuous.
But the fact of rising crime is here
and now, and relief cannot wait
until the old debate about personality and environment is concluded, if
it ever will be.
Without delving into the general
problem of crime, let us consider the
specific offense of auto theft. Some
interesting facts about auto theft are
in a report by what is called the
National Auto Theft Prevention
Campaign with which the Department of Justice is associated.
Six of 10 persons who have been
arrested and charged with auto theft
are under 18 years of age. And
nearly one in five stolen cars has
been involved in an accident. Thus,
the impact of auto theft is greater
than the property loss. It affects
nearly every other sort of crime and
personal tragedy.
*
The accident rate for stolen
vehicles is 200 times greater than for
owner-driven cars. Thirty-seven percent of the accidents caused by
stolen cars have involved police
pursuit. The excitement of the
chase, the stolen-car driver's unfamiliarity with the car, the thief's
youth and nervousness all contribute to the peril of the public and
the police. The statistics collated by
this campaign show that this crime
is not limited to the ghettos and the
homes of the underprivileged. It
extends into the high and medium-
income areas of the suburbs. Again
this proves that crime is not
necessarily caused by poverty.
But the car owner must shoulder
his share of the blame for so many
auto thefts: of the more than 500,000
cars stolen last year, four-fifths were
left unlocked by their owner; two
out of five were left with the keys
ready for the thief. Locked and
keyless cars were activated by
manipulation of wires under the
hood or by master keys. These
"jiggler" keys are sold without
discrimination.
The automobile companies are
already installing changes in design.
A federal safety standard now under
consideration would require that
cars will have ignition switches
which will automatically lock either
the steering column or the transmission.
But while the stolen auto is an
accessory in most crimes, it is also a
profitable industry. According to
the criminal division of the Department of Justice, there are in
operation nearly 300 rings whose
business is to receive and pay for
purloined cars, destroy identification and resell the vehicles in a
black market. Thus, the stolen car is
a vital item in the criminal complex
which ranges from the teen-age
hoodlum to the hardened members
of lawless professionalism.
It is not difficult to draw the
conclusion that crime in all of its
manifestations in these days is due
in no inconsiderable part to the
doctrine of civil disobedience
preached with an absence of logic or
sense and which regards the state as
a tyrant and the police as its storm
troopers.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.