Popular Election of Presidents?
There Are Two Major Objections

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

A proposal has been advanced to the methods for putting it into
exact a pledge from the two major operation. Would such a change
parties to elect in the House the leave the electoral process as it is
major presidential candidate who with the authority of conducting the
would be operative if either major elections and validating the results
candidate fails to have the electoral under state laws and regulations?
majority of 270 votes. Such a scheme In that case in a close election
could not in practice succeed, but, the majority in a determination
because the idea has had such wide might have to wait a long time while
attention since it was suggested, charges of fraud and error were
I venture to discuss it from a tried in the courts. That was the
somewhat different angle. possibility in 1960 when in Illinois
Two influential newspapers, the and Missouri there was palpable
New York Times and the Washing- fraud and in Texas the law had not
ton Post, have taken up the plan and been complied with in several
have given it an excessive amount of counties.
space. Eric Sevareid has pontificat-
ed upon it over CBS News. And It was the decision of Richard
Congressmen Udall and Goodell are Nixon himself to throw in the towel
planning to round up pledges from despite the urging of some of his
all candidates for House seats to managers to contest the results in
support it if elected to the next the states named. He did that for the
Congress. patriotic reason that he wanted to
But the Conference of Governors avoid the governmental paralysis
flatly rejected a resolution endors- that might have resulted if on
ing the plan. The most perceptive of January 20 there was no legitimate
the Democratic governors, John B. President to be inaugurated.
Connally, opposed it no doubt for Or should the suggested constitu-
this reason: Democrats, from Vice tional amendment and the federal
President Hubert Humphrey on laws implementing it place the
down, would be fools to enter into whole electoral process under the
such a compact, for they see that it federal government, so far as the
would be vastly more difficult for election of a President and Vice
the Republican Party to win the President would be concerned?
necessary 26 states in a House vote Presumably, the million or more
than the Democrats. For the Demo- primary and election officials now
crats, in the present House, have a chosen under state law would still
majority in 29 state delegations remain in office because there
while the Republicans have only 18. would be state and local elections.
Over them it is presumed there
If George Wallace does carry would be superimposed a vast army
enough states to deny either major of federal bureaucrats to make sure
candidate the necessary 270 elector- their vote for President and Vice
al votes, there is bound to be a great President would be valid and legal.
hue and cry to abolish the electoral Consider the conflicts that might
college and elect future Presidents ensue. Or would the federal govern-
by popular vote. ment take over the whole electoral
Anticipating that event, I suggest process?
two objections, the one practical and That would nationalize all elec-
the other a matter of fundamental tions and virtually wipe out the
principle. federal system which is the basic
I would suggest that some of the fact in this republic. A matter of
people who are and have been great principle is involved here
advocating the popular election of which apparently the advocates of
Presidents try to frame a constitu- popular elections of Presidents and
tional amendment and to suggest Vice Presidents have not considered.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.