GOP Pros Support Bliss
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
At the recent Republican Governors Conference in Palm Springs, Calif., a resolution was adopted commending the services of Ray Bliss as chairman of the Republican National Committee. That was a part of the reaction in the GOP to persistent rumors ever since the election that President-elect Nixon was considering the replacement of Bliss with one of various names which were the subject of speculation in the press.
That speculation indicated that the incoming President wanted a party chairman who would serve on the dinner circuit as a sort of evangelist or pitchman and who would expound the virtues of the GOP and presumably of the Nixon Administration in particular.
*
Bliss, as everyone knew when he was selected in 1965, was to be a full-time party manager whose operations were designed to build a solid party organization in all of the states and local communities. He never pretended to be a Billy Graham.
In a recent column I described how brilliantly successful he had been as state chairman in Ohio. As national chairman his exceptional success was demonstrated in the 1966 election. This year, too, his capacity was shown in the nationwide Republican strength throughout the country. In short, he served as chairman of a party which was at a very low ebb after the 1964 election and in three years had brought it to a parity with the hitherto dominant Democratic Party. This was recognized by the national committee when he was re-elected chairman by the committee, presumably for four years, by unanimous vote after the Miami Beach convention.
The reaction to the talk about replacing Bliss came from the working hands of the party, Bliss' colleagues in the national committee, from Republican governors and from Republican members of Congress. In the press such veterans as Bill Henry and Walter Trohan joined the chorus of protest. All of this I had personally investigated when I wrote my own protest against the rumors in late November.
For Nixon to permit these speculations about removing Bliss without any denial or any word of congratulation to Bliss personally or to the public was most strange. For above all, the incoming President is a man who deeply believes in the sort of party organization that Bliss exemplifies. Indeed, after his defeat in 1960 he felt that the margin he needed and lacked was due to the failure of the national committee that year.
The source of these rumors about replacing Bliss is not hard to guess. At least four names came to my mind when I first read of the speculation. All of these have been mentioned in the press in the course of the past two weeks. And all of them probably want Bliss' job. And none of them has either a wide acquaintance with workers in the national party or is gifted with the talents of an evangelist.
*
The projection of these rumors from the Nixon entourage is only one example of the leakage which has been going on ever since the campaign started. Reporters ply their trade and if there is no news from the chief they establish contacts with the people who are close to the chief. And since so many on the Nixon staff have been rank amateurs in politics and government, they have on numerous occasions peddled their information which, of course, has been widely published in a press that has had hard going so far as news from the top level was concerned.
Now there have been several selections of people who will in the interim before the inauguration coordinate this or that with the outgoing Administration. One might suggest that before coordinating these matters with the outgoing presidency it would be well to coordinate things within the Nixon staff of helpers. It has been and is a leaky vessel.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.