A Convalescence in Anger
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Doctors and nurses, as well as
relatives and friends, have often
noted that a patient's unhappiness
and complaints increase rapidly
after illness has turned toward
recovery.
While I recognize the danger,
pointed out long ago by G. K.
Chesterton, of attributing individual
characteristics to groups and nations,
it is safe in this case to draw a
likeness between the angry convalescent
and an element in society which
grows more militant and articulate
at the very moment when its well-being
is in a state of marked improvement.
There are plenty of historical
examples of this behavior in collective
society. De Tocqueville noted that
prosperity in France showed a greater
gain in the decade before the revolution
began in 1789 than it had in generations
before. I have always believed that if
our Civil War had not been ignited by
the extremists on both sides, slavery
might have been ended through the
recognition in the South that its system
was unprofitable and a deterrent to the
white and black populations alike.
★
We are now witnessing the same
perverse turn of events in what we
call the Negro problem. The lot of
the Negro has improved notably in
the past 15 or 20 years, more so than
anyone could have predicted earlier.
The Negro revolution in our cities
comes as there are signs of improvement.
Congress and the courts have
exhausted their ingenuity in assuring
Negroes large measures of civil and
political rights. Governments and
private agencies have spent vast sums
in the improvement of living conditions
in the Negro communities. Educational
opportunities have been open to the
black population in the North and in
the South. Employers of good will
have stretched their qualifying rules
to provide employment for Negroes.
The shadow of destitution has been
lifted by new programs of relief.
But this progressive change has
not served to quiet tensions.
A strange turn in this revolt is
now notable in the thinking of certain
elements among the better educated
Negroes. Recently I listened to a
lecture by a Negro who had enjoyed a
good education at Columbia. He said,
in effect, that what had been done for
racial equality was itself resented because
it came as a gift or a charity from the
whites. He told his white audience
that they knew little of what was in
the black man's mind. The expression
"black power," he said, meant what the
blacks should win for themselves. And
occasionally in his discourse there
appeared the expression "black nationalism."
One might infer from this that
integration as a goal is no longer considered
relevant. Instead, there has developed
something vaguely referred to as "militant
separatism."
At Harvard an organization has
grown up called the Harvard-Radcliffe
Assn. of African and Afro-American
Students (AAAAS). The objective of
this movement seems to be to reject
integration in campus life and organizations
and to draw Negroes into wholly black
enclaves. Something of the same has
appeared in other institutions of higher
learning.
★
If this movement among the better
educated Negroes means that they will
dedicate themselves to self-help within
Negro communities, it could be applauded
by the white people who have labored so
long in civil rights endeavors. But the
suggestion is that these "resegregationists"
want nothing that is shared by the white
majority.
My own reflection upon this strange
turn in racial affairs is that it is utterly
futile. The Negro minority and the white
majority must, after all, live, work and
learn on the same piece of real estate
known as the United States. Neither the
minority nor the majority can move away
into another part of the world. The norms
of community living and political union
have been determined by long evolution.
And peaceful coexistence is possible only
if these norms are accepted by all. It would
be a pity if equality of opportunity, which
is now approaching, should be made impossible
by a sort of militancy toward peaceful
integration.
"A house divided against itself"
an intolerable prospect.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.