How Democracy 'Democs'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Whatever one may think of the
qualifications of George Romney or
of his presentation of the issues, he
was the representative of a sizable
minority faction of the Republican
Party known by such names as the
Eastern Establishment or the
moderate or liberal wing. And the
collapse of his candidacy because
the polls showed him to be facing
overwhelming defeat in a tiny state
means that there can be no real
national test of the strength of that
faction.
We are witnessing in New Hamp-
shire and Wisconsin—and will see
in a few other states later—the
operation of a system of nominating
candidates for President which originated half a century ago. That
origin was in an era of widespread
disillusionment in the operation of
the free institutions under which
the people of the United States lived
for more than a century. It was
called the Progressive movement,
and the remedies it created, as
someone said then, "were to make
democracy democ." Its nostrums
were a mixture of high idealism and
wonderful nonsense.
Even Woodrow Wilson was carried away by the euphoria of that
moment. For he solemnly proposed
this in his first message to Congress:
"I feel confident that I do not
misinterpret the wishes or the
expectations of the country when I
urge prompt enactment of legislation which will provide for primary
elections throughout the country at
which the voters of the several
parties may choose the nominees for
the Presidency without the interventions of nominating conventions."
*
We need not dwell upon what the
consequences might have been had
Mr. Wilson's plan been adopted. For
by 1916, before his first term was
over, the trend toward presidential
preference primaries in the states
had ended. Some states which had
adopted them returned to the convention system of selecting delegates. And the national nominating
conventions lived on.
In his lifetime, Woodrow Wilson
wrote things about politics and
government that live as incomparable wisdom. But here he must be
allowed the exception. For his
concept of nominating candidates
for President directly through primaries was naive and utterly impractical.
Even on the ground of constitutional theory, such a plan would
negate the principle of representative government. For conventions
with all their defects are the best
method yet devised by which busy
citizens delegate the responsibility
for representing their views.
The direct-primary system measurably weakens the two-party system. Indeed, in such a state as
California, direct primaries and
nonpartisanship virtually destroyed
parties, and more recently the old
safeguards were partially restored.
But the two-party system with its
delegation and discipline has been
the bastion of free institutions. For
under an enlarged primary system
there might well emerge the multi-
party system, which eroded the
stability of the French government
for so many years and more than
once led to dictatorship.
On the practical side, presidential
preference primaries present candidates with the impossible task of
campaigning in all of them. And so
they risk their fortunes in only a
few. And those few where there are
contests send less than 10% of the
delegates to the national conventions. New Hampshire and Wisconsin will have only 3% of the
delegates in the Republican National Convention this year.
*
Primary contests are very costly.
And President Wilson, who abhorred
money power, failed to realize the
disadvantage that would face a
worthy candidate with limited money. Either the candidate must be as
rich as the Kennedys and Rockefellers, or he must depend upon fat cats
who give in expectation of favors if
their man is elected.
Primary contests which begin so
early in the year wear the patience
of the public threadbare before
November. There are only a limited
number of issues to be debated. But
these issues must be reiterated over
and over ad nauseam for many
months.
Consider the sheer physical drain
that the candidate must suffer in the
long months of travel, speeches and
innumerable press conferences and
contacts. Very few men over 60
could stand the strain. The candidate who can stay to the end must
have the physical capacity of an
itinerant wrestler. The two Roosevelts died at 63.
Harry Truman and Herbert Hoover were exceptions. But Mr. Truman
never had to win a nomination to
become President, and when he ran
for re-election he had the perquisites and power of his office to help
him. And Mr. Hoover's first nomination came with a minimum of
campaigning. Their reward was a
longer life.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.