Humphrey May Win N.Y. Over
GOP-Conservative Impasse
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The New York Democratic Party's
delegates in Chicago certainly vied
with those from California, Wisconsin and New Hampshire for the
brass medal for clownishness. But
due to an impasse between the
Republican and Conservative parties in New York, a situation may
develop in which Hubert Humphrey
and Edmund Muskie would probably win the state's 43 electoral votes.
This is the situation at this point,
before the matter is decided on
Monday:
The Conservative Party in 1966
won on Row C on the ballot by
outvoting the Liberal Party. This
represents a considerable Conservative advantage. The state ticket in
1968 may poll considerably more
than the 510,000 they received in
1966.
If on the ballot this year both
Republicans and Conservatives
were to use the same slate of
electors, the combined votes would
probably carry the state for Richard
Nixon and Spiro Agnew.
As they did in 1964, Nelson
Rockefeller, Jacob Javits and John
Lindsay are again opposed to any
collaboration with the Conservatives. Their reason is that they
regard the Conservative Party as a
means of taking votes away from
the regular Republican candidates.
★
It was said by a responsible
reporter of the New York Times that
Nixon had told the Conservatives
that he wanted such a coalition of
electors. And the Conservative Party chairman, J. Daniel Mahoney, has
asked the Republican State Committee to permit his party to list their
electors on the Conservative line on
the ballot.
At this point, the Conservative
vice chairman asked John Mitchell,
the Nixon manager, what Nixon
wanted. Mitchell's reply was that
Nixon wanted "the support of all
voters who agree with his principles," but "the matter of joint
electors is an intraparty question
which must be resolved by those
organizations." In short, it is Nixon's
position that the matter must be
resolved by the two political parties
directly concerned.
Lindsay is the only one of the New
York triumvirate available at this
writing. He says that the three are
against a joint slate but that they
would confer after Labor Day about
the situation.
The argument of Conservative
leaders is that the aversion of the
Republican leaders to splinter parties has not been consistent, For
when Lindsay ran for New York
City mayor in 1965 he accepted the
Liberal endorsement and in 1968
Javits has done the same.
Also, that most of the regular
Republican candidates for the House
who are opposed by Conservative
candidates would lose anyhow, because they are in heavily Democratic districts.
It is also probable that Javits
would win even if opposed by the
Conservative candidate, James
Buckley. If a joint slate of electors
were on the two lines on the ballot,
Javits might lose 200,000 or more
votes but would win over Paul
O'Dwyer, the not too attractive
Democratic candidate for the Senate. Anyhow, it would be impossible
under the law to drop Buckley from
the ticket now.
ㅈ
But the Conservatives want the
names of Nixon-Agnew on their
Row C, and they threaten to run a
separate slate of electors if the
Republicans refuse to permit a joint
slate to be used. For they cannot
legally use the names of the regular
Republican electors without their
permission. If these electors refuse
to permit their names to be listed on
the Conservative line, the Nixon-
Agnew ticket—if the Conservatives
run their own slate—would probably lose the state to the Democrats.
There is one glimmer of hope for
an advantage to the Nixon-Agnew
ticket. The Republican State Committee will select its electors and
make them known Thursday. After
that and before the Conservative
Party selects its own electors, it will
be these electors and not the State
Committee who could agree to run
on the Conservative line. It is
possible that a number of them may
agree. In that case, some of them
would win over Democratic electors
and the New York electoral vote
would be split.
Thus, the Nixon-Agnew national
ticket might pick up several electors. This is, however, a remote
chance. Everything will depend
upon whether the regular Republican electors choose to limit themselves to their own ticket.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.