Youth: Presentable and...
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
PHOENIX—While driving west
last week I stopped for lunch in
Alpine, West Texas. Opposite the
restaurant is Sul Ross State College
and in the dining room were several
of the students. After the discomfort
suffered while viewing the slovenly
dress and haircuts of so many
students in the East, it was refreshing
to see the contrast here in a remote
part of Texas.
Most of the boys wore clean
cowboy attire and as is the custom
of the country wore their big hats
while eating. But beneath the hats
their hair was most conservatively
cut. As I left I commented upon
these haircuts to the cashier. She
said that whenever a student appeared
from outside the state with a bizarre
hair-do the students themselves
applied the scissors and razor.
This is one way to enforce
conformity which need not be added
to the burdens of the school administration.
This incident recalled a learned
article in the Cleveland-Marshall
Law Review which might be entitled
"the law of the hair." This article,
written by Marvin R. Plasco, one of
the advanced students, reviews the
various cases in which high school
and college authorities have endeavored
to enforce regulations concerning
dress and the length and distribution
of hairy embellishments on and about
the students' heads. The Supreme
Court has not yet passed upon this
subject but there are plenty of state
cases.
In general, the decisions have
upheld the school authorities on the
ground that they are acting in loco
parentis. But since in these permissive
days parents themselves seem unable
to find for themselves the locus of
their own authority, this rule is
difficult to enforce.
In one case, Leonard v. School
Committee of Attleboro, the Massachusetts
Supreme Court upheld a school
regulation which barred students with
unacceptable haircuts from attending
a high school. The student claimed
in his defense that he was a paid
musician and his strange haircut was
essential to the popular acceptance
of his music.
He argued also that the school's
rule was an invasion of his family's
privacy since apparently his parents
approved of his haircut.
But the court held that the
"domain of family privacy" must
yield to the need for school discipline.
It said:
"Any unusual, immodest or exaggerated
mode of dress, conspicuous departures
from accepted customs in the matter
of haircuts could result in the distraction
of other students (and thus) impede
the maintenance of proper classroom
discipline and decorum."
In other cases students have used
constitutional arguments, claiming
that their long hair and facial trimmings
were a mode of "symbolic expression"
and thus were protected by the First
Amendment. The word "expression"
is not in the First Amendment but (in
a case that did not involve hair) Justice
Douglas has held that the First Amendment
includes more than the spoken or
written word. In that case Justice
Goldberg brought in the forgotten
Ninth Amendment in a concurring
opinion. Perhaps in that broad and
sweeping amendment all sorts of bangs,
beards and sideburns can find a nesting
place in the future.
★
So far as the Plasco researches
reveal, the students have not yet
appealed to history. For as the
portraits show, the haircuts and
facial trimmings of our Presidents
have changed from generation to
generation. First there were the
Georgian locks and smooth faces.
Then beginning with Lincoln and
ending with McKinley beards held
sway. Thus the student revolution is
reactionary in both historical respects,
both long hair and beards.
In fact it may be most difficult for
school authorities to prove that long
hair is actually distracting or that it
is a menace to the health of other
students or the public. A deeper
penetration beneath the hair will
have to be made to provide such
proof.
But presumably the revolution
against school standards will go on.
For as one commentator has noted:
"If the state can compel short hair
today, it can compel long hair
tomorrow."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.