Prospects of Election Day
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is telling people nothing they do
not know already to say that over the
nation every sign indicates substantial
Republican gains. But after that is said,
a lot of specific questions arise and some
of these questions can be answered only
after the election. Without attempting to
answer the more complicated problems of
prediction let us see what the evidence
shows on the eve of election.
The following conclusions are based
upon three sorts of evidence. First, avail-
able and ordinarily fairly reliable polls.
Second, newspapermen's estimates printed
in papers throughout the country. Third,
personal contacts with politicians in vari-
ous States made by visiting in the past
six weeks, California, Kansas, Illinois,
Iowa, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New
Jersey, Connecticut and New York.
THE PROSPECTS
First as to the Governorships and Sena-
torships in these States:
New York—There is no serious differ-
ence of opinion among an overwhelming
majority of informed people about Dewey's
election. His majority up-State will be less
than 1938 but he will make great gains
in the big city. A conservative estimate
of his plurality is 300,000—it may run to
500,000.
Pennsylvania—It looks like Martin, the
Republican candidate.
Ohio—Bricker may get a sufficiently big
majority to put him first among Repub-
lican Presidential possibilities.
Michigan—The signs point to a Repub-
lican Governor with the Senatorship in
the balance.
Illinois—Brooks, Republican, is fairly
sure of re-election as Senator by a figure
somewhat larger than he received in 1940.
Iowa—It looks like a big Republican
sweep in this farm-minded State.
Kansas—It looks like Schoeppel, the
Republican candidate, by 10,000. Capper,
for Senator, will have twice that figure.
Kansas people say that in Nebraska the
Republican candidate for Governor looks
like a sure thing. Norris running for Sen-
ator may pull through but if he does his
plurality will not be large.
California—It looks like a victory for
Warren, the Republican candidate for
Governor.
SEVERAL FACTORS
But every one of these estimates is de-
pendent upon another question. How rap-
idly is the present tide running against
the national administration? That is hard
to gauge, but several factors are impor-
tant. First, a national drift away from
the administration among the women of
the country. Second, profound agricul-
tural resentment against the President for
his Labor Day speech. Third, a tremen-
dous cut in the vote in two groups al-
ways friendly to the President—youth
and industrial workers. Fourth, bad war
news in October. Another factor is that
so many people are predicting Republican
success. The atmosphere, thus created,
should cumulate the Republican vote.
How much, no one can tell.
As to Congress, the best answer is to
cite various estimates. Dr. Gallup saw
in May a Democratic gain; in September,
a Republican gain; in late October, a drift
back toward the Democrats. There are
now in the house 257 Democrats, 165 Re-
publicans and six miscellaneous. Seven
seats are vacant.
Dr. Gallup's October estimate of Demo-
crats in the House was 240. The poll of
50 Washington correspondents two weeks
ago was 235. A number of informed prac-
tical Democrats outside of Congress say
the number of Democrats will be as low
as 225.
A HEADACHE IN STORE?
In reaching a conclusion on this diffi-
cult estimate, two factors must be con-
sidered. The first is the strength of the
antiadministration drift. A movement of
a few percentage points in this last week
could easily shift the majority of the
House to the Republicans. But on the
other hand, it must be remembered that
most of the seats affected in the States
named above are already Republican. As
the side of the Republican members
rises, additional seats are harder to get
because they are the ones that are held
by larger majorities.
One further question deserves attention.
It is a question raised by James A. Far-
ley in a speech last week. He warns
people against polls because, he says,
every system of polling in the past has
ultimately gone wrong. He shrewdly points
out that while a system of polling may
remain the same from election to elec-
tion, the distribution of votes among
groups is constantly changing. Thus the
poll-takers’ “samples” cease to be true
cross sections of the voting population.
The Literary Digest poll struck such
a rock in 1936 because, while the source
of the names remained the same, the
alignment of voters behind Roosevelt
changed. His appeal to the moderately
well-to-do fell off, his support among the
less fortunate increased. This year another
change may be taking place. Vast num-
bers of New Deal supporters are not go-
ing to vote. That makes all past methods
of sampling inaccurate. There may be a
big headache in store for poll people.
Copyright, 1942, by the Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.