Those Radio
Speculators
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Scarcely did the news of American military activities in Africa break upon an astonished country when some commentators began saying over the air, with an unmistakable note of triumph in their voices, that a lot of people must now be ashamed of their votes in the election.
So repeatedly has this suggestion been made since that a number of readers have asked this column whether it is true that had the news broken before election the result would have been substantially different.
In the opinion of this writer, the answer is no. But it is regrettable that speculation of this kind should be necessary, for it suggests a relationship between politics and military decisions which is all but sickening. Even more clearly it suggests that a number of radio commentators are obviously far from familiar with the American political scene.
NOT THEIR STRONG POINT
Without indulging in a generalized criticism of radio commentators, it may be said in passing that it was plain on election night itself that politics was not their strong point. Some commentators threw a disorganized and unintelligible jumble of figures at their audience. There was marked lack of comparative figures relating to past elections, which are the first essential of quick appraisals of results. More often than not, figures were given from States with no effort to indicate from what section of a given State they came and what weight the vote of this section usually bore relatively to the total. There was evidence, and plenty of it, that certain commentators were as unfamiliar with sectional and State problems as men from Mars.
No one will deny that a small minimum of votes might have been affected by the immediate news had it broken just before election. But such feathery votes do not decide elections. The drift away from the Democratic party has been of long duration. By-elections in various places as long as a year ago revealed the same two tendencies as were present in this election. Those tendencies were a light vote and a Republican gain. Every test that this writer could make over the past 12 months confirmed the tendency. Wise people in both parties were predicting it privately. And at all times it was said that the dissatisfaction was not related to military news in any important degree. It was related to many domestic situations, some sectional, some general.
DECEIVED BY CLATTER
Those who live in the fevered atmosphere that characterizes some quarters of Washington and New York are constantly deceived by the clatter of the immediate. Their judgments have a tendency to be thrown totally out of kilter by it. The failure to see what the election results meant in perspective is of the same stripe as the clamor for a second front not so long ago. Those who, without knowing all the facts, called for a second front, were characterized by a high official a few days ago as "ignorant outsiders."
In both cases the tenor of comment sprang from a far too hasty jumping to excited conclusions. The second front clamor arose from the lack of knowledge that preparations for our American adventure were very far advanced. The intimation that the recent election results would have been totally different springs from a failure to understand the complex and detailed currents of American politics that make for basic changes. A long succession of wise Presidents, the most recent being Mr. Roosevelt himself, have testified to the danger of judging political trends on the basis of instant reactions.
A DRIFT BACK
Party habits and loyalties are deep and stable things. Plainly, the sections that went Republican in this election are, by tradition, Republican. Their traditional loyalties were upset between 1932 and 1936 by a number of factors too well known to need enumeration here. But since 1936, the drift in these sections has been back to the party which held sway for a long generation. The election in 1918 was held in the very midst of the collapse of the Central Powers. But the election result was not affected by that.
The sooner we can get our thinking about war news separate from our thinking about politics the better we shall be able to judge both. To attempt to mix the two is to do a grievous injustice to the American people.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.