NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 30.—For the
simple reason that converting a shipyard
is going to be one of the most difficult
of all postwar jobs, people suspect that
Andrew Jackson Higgins of this city is
not too sorry that the Maritime Commission last summer canceled his contract
for building 200 Liberty ships. It was a
hard blow to him at the time, and his
flaming vocabulary was taxed for words
to describe the injustice he had suffered.
But he is happy again with new war contracts that promise a lot more postwar
opportunities than the old.
Since the cancellation last July of the
Liberty ship contract upon which Higgins
had started work he has been given a
contract for 1200 plywood Curtiss caravan
cargo planes. They are to be built in the
Micheaud yards. Higgins promises that
it will be ready in two months. Deliveries,
he says, will start in three months more.
USING ‘HOME STUFF’
At the time the aircraft contract was
made, another contract, this one for marine motors capable of adaptation as
2000-horsepower aircraft motors, was also
signed. It’s good that it was, for an unmentionable number of Higgins boats are
lined up in the canal waiting for motors
now supplied by other companies. Higgins will now break this bottleneck the
way he always does—by making what is
needed himself.
Higgins, who started his career 30-odd
years ago in the lumber business, is engaged now in making his own plywood
for the new planes. Materials for that
purpose, he points out, are all found in
abundance in the Deep South. He is also
well along on experimental production
of plastics. Finally, he is utilizing fibrous
stuff, found in unlimited quantities in
palmetto swamps, to create powerful and
light materials for planes.
Beyond the planes made under license
from Curtiss, Higgins is planning still
larger “semi-flying-wing” cargo planes.
The “flying-wing” plane has intrigued
many producers for a long time. Most notable developments of experimental all-
wing planes have been made by Northrop.
Of course, Henry Kaiser played with the
idea last summer but turned to another
type. Higgins, however, is seriously getting into it. He plans to build a “flying
wing” with 400,000 pounds displacement
to handle freight and troops. This, he
makes clear, is an entirely different project from his Curtiss contract. It is, he
says, his own idea. He is also planning
a cheap helicopter for postwar trade.
INGREDIENTS OF FUTURE
Recently a large order has come through
to Higgins for a considerable number of
small ships, the nature of which cannot
be revealed. But it is noteworthy that
this means the expansion of one of his
boat plants in which he was turning out
boats six months ago before the roof was
completed. This project is moving very
fast. From swamp to finished ships will
literally take only a few weeks.
There are people in New Orleans who
are fearful of postwar conditions there
because of the tremendous expansion of
the Higgins industries. It must be remembered that New Orleans was bypassed
in the last war and that it had no postwar boom. Higgins’ answer to these fears
is that what he makes are products of
his own design, that his war products
bear a clear relationship to important
peace products, and there is a certain future for his small boats in commerce, and
that cargo planes, plywood and plastics
are essential ingredients of the future.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
So Say We All
Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, explaining why
she keeps traveling, says, “It would be a
lot more restful for me to stop.” Restful
for the country, too.