Universities
Meeting Crisis
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
While we have a habit of talking about
higher education in the war as a "prob-
lem," there are in reality two quite dis-
tinct problems. For more than 1000 small
colleges the problem is the almost pitiful
struggle to maintain that minimum of
life which will enable them to pick up
again after the war. For the big institu-
tion it is how to meet the tremendous bur-
den of mounting personnel and how to
provide increasingly complex scientific
research and instruction. An amazing pic-
ture of what the war means to a great
university and what that university means
to a nation at war is given in the annual
report, just published, of President James
B. Conant of Harvard.
With the delicacy and skill that might
be expected of a very able scientist, edu-
cator and man of the world, President
Conant shows how some of the confusion
of Washington has affected his campus.
More often than not the hard-pressed uni-
versity presidents have had to proceed
without knowing exactly what was ex-
pected of them—even now he says: "We
still live in hope of clearer days." This
has meant that the big universities have
had to guess and anticipate what they
should do—that they have done that
successfully is an epic story.
MANY DIFFICULTIES
When Harvard played West Point last
fall, the great crowd of spectators was
treated not only to the colorful West Point
military pageant, but to its amazement
to a Harvard military review in which
4000 men participated. The university was
preparing all these men directly for war,
and they did not include some 2000 medi-
cal students and undergraduates sworn
in as reserves.
The sheer business of housing these
men presented formidable difficulties—
while the undergraduate student body
was kept at normal size by the admission
of many more freshmen, the university
had to find eating and sleeping quarters
for more than 1000 Navy men in the col-
lege yard.
Provision for the instruction of these
and hundreds more has had to be made.
To mention only one of the many special
jobs of instruction this puts to the uni-
versity, there is the training of 400 Army
chaplains who were suddenly dropped in
the university's lap in August—all this,
despite the loss of 400 members of the
faculty and research staffs to the armed
forces or to other Government agencies.
Those who remain, cheerfully foregoing
leisure and vacations, are teaching many
more months for the same compensation.
The problems of medical education that
war poses are exceedingly complex. Gone
are the days when the prospective doctor
looked forward to 10 years of training be-
tween high school and private practice.
His training now is half as long as it was,
and at the end of it he is in the armed
services. A freshman who entered last
June will be a full-fledged medical stu-
dent early next year and an M.D. in 1946.
This means the extraordinarily hard job
of concentrating, not eliminating, the es-
sentials of medical education. The loss
to medical education will not be in the
quality of standard education but in the
specialties. That will have to be made up
later on.
LAW SCHOOL WAY DOWN
On the other hand, certain professional
schools are reduced to shadows of their
former selves. The Harvard Law School
is down from a normal attendance of 1500
to 168.
The old liberal arts disciplines may
never be the same again at Harvard or
anywhere else. That is in no small part
the result of the fact, gently suggested by
President Conant, that despite years of
discussion, the colleges of America never
quite decided on the meaning of liberal
arts. But it is also because general educa-
tion in the future must be for the multi-
tude rather than the relatively few. Old
standards of what a gentleman should
know must be severely reconsidered, and
judging by what President Conant says,
Harvard will have an enlightened voice
in that reconsideration.
Anyone who entertains pessimistic
views on what the war is doing to educa-
tion should read the Conant report. It
gives point and substance to the late
President Lowell's famous observation—
Institutions have never been killed while
they were alive.
Copyright, 1945. Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.