The Typewriter
Strategists
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
If a headline writer on the morning
of Oct. 13 had wanted to throw into striking
contrast the two most significant news
items of the day, he might have written
at the top of his paper. "Three cruisers
sunk Aug 9, President chides press for
ignorance"
The President's speech, of course, drew
a more important news lead—the proposed
drafting of 18 and 19 year-olds. And
it is clear that American military interests
were well served by keeping from
the enemy such an important naval loss
as that of Aug. 9, until we had time to
send reinforcements.
But the essence of the friction between
the President and the press does not lie
in withholding such news as the sinking
of these cruisers. Everyone could agree
upon such censorship. The difficulty lies
in what might be called the psychological
organization of the government's policy
with reference to what news the people
should read and hear about production.
The government—and responsibility for
this goes squarely to the President—has
apparently never made a basic decision
in its propaganda policy, because it has
never decided whether Hitler can be
shaken by optimistic news of American
production, or whether such news, if
known to Hitler, will move him to greater
and more effective efforts to win.
A SPOTTY PICTURE
Apparently there are people of influence
in the government who believe the enemy
can be injured by more news of our
production. And so there dribbles out a
bit of good news, notably the news of
phenomenal records in ship construction.
But there are also people of influence
who believe it will help Hitler to know
more of production, and so there is enough
suppression to create a very spotty overall
picture. That picture can be seen in
all sorts of light by Americans. To some
it imparts deep pessimism. To others
it portrays high optimism. And the result
is paralyzing confusion.
Moreover, there is bound to be confusion
among even the best of expert writers.
That is why the President's chiding of
"typewriter strategists" is out of order.
Where they fail, the government is to a
large extent to blame. And the better
course for the President would seem to
be to call a halt to his endless criticism
of the press generally. For he may be responsible
for some of its mistakes of
judgment.
AN EXAMPLE
Let us consider an example. William
B. Ziff has written an important book describing
how Germany can be effectively
bombed. He says that super bombers are
already beyond the design stage and he
hints that they will appear before long
to supplement our already incomparable
Flying Fortresses and Liberators. Another
expert, writing in a big daily, attacks
Ziff. He says that such planes are not
yet designed.
Obviously there is a question of fact
here that bears heavily upon any discussion
of the probable success of the bombing
of Germany. Are such bombers designed
and on the way to production,
or are they not?
A lot of people know the answer to
that question; this writer is fortunate
enough to be one of them. But the public
does not know it, and a lot of newspaper
writers, through no fault of their own,
do not know it.
This bombing question revolves around
another matter of fact. How many B-17's
and B-24's can we expect to produce over,
say, the next six months? Some people
know the answer to that, too. If the press
could know it more generally, its calculations
would be more informative, even
though it might not print it.
OPPORTUNITY SHOWN
The President does not expect the "type-
writer strategists" to close up shop, surely.
Hence, instead of chiding them, he should
see that his huge agencies of information
do a better job of informing them.
The point is that information such as
is suggested above does get out. It is in
print here and there in newspapers, magazines
and books. It is not a well-kept
secret. If it is not, it should be clearly set
forth to all writers by responsible centralized
government information agencies.
It goes without saying that, if the President
was talking about people who advocate
"prodding" military authorities by
public clamor to a fateful course like a
land attack in Europe, he was on sound
ground. But in what he said in his speech,
he fell to his all too familiar habit of
generalities. And his generalities always
leave scars on a lot of innocent people.
If he meant Mr. Willkie, he should have
said so. Mr. Willkie is not a "typewriter
strategist." He is another kind of strategist.
If he meant two or three or a dozen
editors, he could have told them through
some members of the colossal army of
information men who draw pay from the
government. But if, as is possible, he
wanted to impair the public's confidence
in the press, he was engaged in a pastime
that might well be suspended for the
duration.
(Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.