The G.O.P. Looks
for a Chairman
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The first big decision of the strengthened
Republican party is already looming
up before its leaders. It is the choice of a
successor to Joseph W. Martin Jr. as
chairman of the national committee. This
will be decided at the early December
meeting of the committee. But the lines
which are already forming indicate that
skill and patience will be necessary to
avoid a sharp fight.
Middle Western leaders have put into
the race Werner W. Schroeder of Chicago,
a lawyer and Republican National Com-
mitteeman for Illinois since 1940. In Wash-
ington and New York it is said that Wen-
dell Willkie opposes the choice of Schroe-
der. Just where Dewey stands has not yet
been clearly indicated.
People close to Willkie are talking of
Kenneth Bradley of Connecticut, a young
man who has risen fast in Connecticut
politics. His party lost the State in 1940,
but this year it elected a Governor and
five new Congressmen. Bradley's candidacy
for the chairmanship is likely to have the
support of much of New England and of
many young Republicans throughout the
country who are favorable to Mr. Willkie.
STRATEGY SIZED UP
The strategy of the Willkie friends is
apparently not to push the Bradley can-
didacy too vigorously, but after letting
it be known in no uncertain terms that
Schroeder's election would cause dissen-
sion in the party, to offer Bradley. Such
a move is not apt to be regarded as a
compromise, yet it might possibly divert
the choice of Schroeder.
There are strong arguments behind the
Schroeder candidacy. Schroeder, a lawyer
of standing, entered politics reluctantly
as a public service. He found the Repub-
lican party in Illinois in a welter of de-
feat. All important offices had been Demo-
cratic since 1930. Two successful cam-
paigns have now shifted the balance. In
1940, a Republican Governor, Dwight
Green, and a Senator, Wayland Brooks,
were re-elected. This year Senator Brooks
was re-elected. In 1938 the G.O.P. elected
10 Illinois Congressmen. In 1942 it won
19 seats in the House.
Mr. Schroeder was the author of the na-
tional committee resolution on foreign
affairs in April, which Mr. Willkie warm-
ly approved. On behalf of Schroeder, it
is said that this resolution was scarcely
the handiwork of an "isolationist," al-
though Schroeder is opposed because of
his supposed isolationism. Beyond that is
the argument that the Republican party
should go to the Midwest for a chairman.
Its hold on popular approval is most se-
cure since its renaissance will in any
case depend upon the farm vote, which
seems there to be in process of return-
ing to its former party allegiance. Finally,
there is strong opposition to eastern in-
fluence in the party.
OTHER NAMES
Other names have been suggested, al-
though most of them are from Midwestern
or Western States, such as Oregon, Indi-
ana, Iowa and Missouri. To date the most
outstanding among the scattered sugges-
tions has been a Massachusetts man, Sin-
clair Weeks. But there are so many rea-
sons why Alf M. Landon would be a good
choice that his name will undoubtedly
come up with increasing frequency in the
discussion. He enjoys the goodwill of
most national leaders, has been positive
and active in his speeches and he has
had long political experience.
There have been a few voices calling
for the selection of a businessman whose
organizing ability and public reputation
would be an asset in the chairmanship.
But it is unlikely that the national com-
mittee would choose a man without politi-
cal experience or that they would go be-
yond their own membership in making the
selection.
The best guess now is that the commit-
tee will reject a Willkie-backed candidate
by a big majority. The demand for a man
who will give the job his full time, care-
fully build up the party organization,
consolidate the gains and develop a set
of party principles is a strong one.
Of the 106 members of the committee,
it is doubtful if over 30 will follow Will-
kie's leadership. The Willkie people may
get a few more votes to oppose Mr. Schroe-
der, but if the committee is ready to defy
the Willkie thunder, it may well select
the man from Illinois.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Who Knows?
Detroit News
Lost somewhere in forgotten Indian lore
is the red man's secret of running a large
continent without all this trouble.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.