Winston Churchill and Realism
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Hardly had Mr. Churchill ceased speaking last Sunday when a number of familiar Senatorial and journalistic hats were in the air. Churchill, most of the comment ran, had practically repeated Senator Ball's postwar resolution.
Nothing could be farther from the truth, and anyone who heard or read his speech should have known it. Mr. Churchill said that as soon as Hitler is polished off, and even before Japan is beaten, the three victorious powers—the United States, Great Britain and Russia—will begin shaping the peace. They will start to confer on some future world organization which will do those tasks in the so-called "intermediate" period after the war—that is, disarm the enemy, punish their leaders, return stolen property and feed the hungry. Then he said that one could imagine that "under a world institution embodying or representing the United Nations and, someday, all nations" there would be created "a council of Europe and a council of Asia."
Mr. Churchill then proceeded to describe what a "council of Europe" should be and do. What he said indicated clearly that most of the permanent activities which the League of Nations attempted, plus the direction of a permanent police force, would be carried out by this "council of Europe." Presumably, for its part of the world, a "council of Asia" would have similar functions.
In short, Mr. Churchill takes a realistic view. Peace will be made and maintained by three great powers. They will, at their discretion and in due time, associate themselves with other nations. But international government will rest with regional organizations. So far as any world-wide organization is to be established, it will be concerned, not with active world government and sanctions, but with the setting up of ideals and standards and with other matters requiring common counsel.
Participation of the United States will be needed to accomplish the work of the "council of Europe." But shrewdly the Prime Minister did not suggest that we should submit our problems to the jurisdiction of such a council. This is an exceedingly important point. As to the Western Hemisphere, he was silent. It may be assumed that we in the Western Hemisphere can form our own council and attack our problems on a regional basis.
A regional organization of the world is obviously what the practical Mr. Churchill is thinking of. It is a fair guess that Mr. Eden talked to our government officials somewhat to the same purpose.
Such a plan would permit the Anglo-Russian treaty of May, 1942, to operate within a "council of Europe," since two of the three dominant powers which will dictate European peace are signatories of that treaty.
This concept of regional peace has a vastly better chance to get the backing of American opinion than the vague ideas of a super world league which some of our own extremists are making a hoopla over. It is in this respect that Mr. Churchill and the Ball resolution are at variance.
It is a vital distinction. Mr. Churchill more correctly interprets world realities and American opinion than many of our own leaders.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
How We Got Some of Our Abbreviations
BY ARTHUR MILLIER
The everyday term "soft drinks" is abbreviated from "Sons of Temperance drinks," a name applied to nonalcoholic beverages during the temperance movement of the 1830's.
Our familiar but irrelevant sounding word "tip" is another old contradiction. When guests in taverns complained to the serving man of slow service, he directed their attention to a box near the fireplace. When a coin was dropped in the box it rang a bell. On these boxes the words "To Insure Promptness" were lettered. Later only the initials were used—T.I.P. Eventually the term became just plain "tip."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.