The Problem
of Absenteeism
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The real facts about the loss of man
power in war production through ab-
senteeism make most bills to freeze peo-
ple to their jobs look like lawyers' dreams.
Even the talk of freezing people adds new
diversions. For there is mounting evi-
dence that workers are taking lots of
time off now to hunt for better places to
be frozen in.
As our economy grows more tight, of
course, a disturbance in one place affects
the whole. Employees lose time these
days while they are shopping around in
many stores to find scarce articles. They
stay home to repair broken down do-
mestic appliances which can't be fixed
in shops which are out of materials or
men. Because they haven't the gas to get
into the country they get tight in night
clubs and saloons and have hangovers
the next day. They take time out to get
ration cards and tire inspections.
Absenteeism in industry began to get
serious in 1941. Pearl Harbor slowed it
down for a while, but in a few weeks
it was worse than ever. By late summer
it was a national problem. It was that
way in the last war. It got that way in
every big boom.
ALARMING FIGURES
Plants in Ohio report that they have
been short of as many as 10 per cent of
their workers—three times as many as
they would normally expect. In Cleve-
land, for example, the Associated Indus-
tries report that 13,000 out of 200,000 in-
dustrial workers had not been clocked on
a recent Monday. The old normal would
have been between 4000 and 8000, even
after allowing for the larger number now
employed. This is alarmingly large.
A number of investigations of absen-
teeism are being made in this country
and Canada, as they were a little earlier
in England. The problem is certain to
be highlighted more and more in 1943.
Not improbably a national campaign will
be undertaken. The production commit-
tees set up last spring at the request of
Donald Nelson took the reduction of
absences as one of its objectives, but it
is clear that this effort will have to be
accelerated.
One corporation has found absences
most frequent among young women who
support only themselves, boys who have
just come to work and men who were
long on the W.P.A. It is lowest, or very
low, among mature women who have rela-
tives in the armed forces. It is also very
low among the men who have been long
in the company’s employ. Another cor-
poration, this one in the airplane indus-
try, is surprised to find the rate high
among its men of experience.
CHIEF REASONS
A few studies of the problem already
completed in this country are very elabo-
rate, going into questions of the incidence
of illness by sex, locality and age. One
of them finds that the number of hours
worked each week is of considerably less
importance than the number of days each
week. It is notorious that absences are
high at the opening of the hunting sea-
sons, in bad weather. Monotony of work
is important. Persons with a low stand-
ard of living are inclined to be absent
more frequently than those in higher
levels; a condition which relates both to
health and to a desire for the things
money will buy. Rationing of essentials
and the disappearance of nonessentials
from the market, though unavoidable, will
not help in cutting down the absences.
And above all, neither does current talk
of freezing workers where they are.
All kinds of remedies have been tried
with varying degrees of success. Most of
them aim to improve the employee’s esti-
mate of the value of his own job, or
shame him for inefficient performance.
One concern, a maker of machine tools,
discovered that a considerable number
of its employees actually do not realize
how directly connected their work is with
the war.
It is unnecessary to argue that a great
gain in efficiency might be made if the
workers already employed in war indus-
tries could be persuaded to be there every
possible day. A plant with 5 per cent of
its men absent may suffer a loss in pro-
duction of 10 per cent or more, depending
on how many are slowed down by those
not present.
But before we go much further in
making it inconvenient or difficult or
even illegal for men to quit their jobs,
we might do more to persuade them to
deliver a full week’s or month’s work.
Copyright, 1943. Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.