Now to Make
the War Short
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
As the thoughts of statesmen turn to
the problems of peace the growing realization that the task must and should be
long and painstaking becomes increasingly
evident—so, too, does the need of redoubled efforts in 1943 to make the war
not only successful but short. Within 10
days of each other, two significant figures,
former President Hoover and Lord Halifax, the British Ambassador, have each
voiced these sentiments.
on Wednesday night and Lord Halifax
In his remarks to the Pacific War Council on Dec. 9, grimly warn us that the
longer the war goes on the more attention the peacemakers will be compelled
to give to the elemental job of saving the
structure of civilization itself from chaos.
That job of salvage, says Mr. Hoover
somberly, comes before any nice rearrangements of territory, before the restoration
of this or that sovereignty, before
even, the possibility of resuming normal
economic arrangements. For the longer
the war goes on the more bitter and
devastated will be the wreckage.
CAN BECOME LIABILITIES
Hunger, disease, moral disintegration
and political anarchy in the conquered
countries and within Germany and Italy
are our allies, it is true. But they will also
be liabilities to the victors the moment
the firing ceases. As Mr. Hoover says:
"The transportation systems, industries
and agriculture of all Europe will be damaged or ruined. There is already a shortage
of food which amounts to famine
among 180,000,000 of the people. It will
extend to 500,000,000. These nations will
be without credit or raw materials. Turning
the mass production swords of total
war into mass production plowshares is
no idle metaphor."
These very conditions and the human
misery they imply will inevitably result
in clamor for haste in peacemaking. But
this time peacemaking must not be done
in a hurry. In 1919, the conference tried
to do too much, too soon. It started as
an attempt to negotiate peace; it ended by
imposing peace. Surely this time the
"imposing" should come first, and the
"negotiation" should follow.
Mr. Hoover specifically suggests that
there should be no armistice and no general
peace conference at first. Instead, he
recommends two steps. The first, he says,
is a "conditional peace" that will turn
the world toward political, economic and
spiritual recovery without the delays of
last time. And then, he adds, "the world
should take time to cool off and work
out one by one, and separately, the solutions for lasting peace."
REGIONAL PROBLEM
The best plan in making the permanent
peace, in the judgment of this writer,
would be to recognize the problem as
regional. First in order should come the
making of a European and African peace,
next an Asiatic and Pacific peace, and,
finally, a general conference of the nations of
the Western Hemisphere to determine both its internal arrangements and
its relationships with the rest of the
world. If, as is quite probable, the war
ends in Europe before it ends in Asia,
the process of conditional peacemaking
for Europe might well proceed while the
United Nations are finishing off the Japanese.
The failure of the League was based in
the fact that it sought in one leap to attain
a world federation. The world cannot
be governed from Geneva, even in
these times of swift communications. As
a practical matter, Portugal and Poland,
for example, cannot deal with Asiatic
problems with the same interest and intelligence as Australia. Machinery which
gives Peru and Turkey, say, an equal vote
in Near Eastern matters must lead to
intrigue and log-rolling in any world legislature.
The interests of the United States will
vary in postwar arrangements. We shall
be sympathetic and helpful in European
affairs. But our role in the Pacific will be
active. And in the Western Hemisphere
it will be vital and immediate. To view
world peacemaking as the settlement of
a series of problems rather than of a
single one is to work in hopeful accord
with the realities.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.