A Big War Job of Transport
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
We've been calling it a war of production, but it is equally a war of transport, and that side has been getting some deserved attention lately. It is almost as if the more vigorous bombing of the railways on which Germany depends had been suggested by the remarkable job our own railways have been doing. As their performance grows, the proof becomes clearer that efficiency of transportation is a decisive factor in the war.
For a long time the Allies and the Axis have been trading blows at each other's transport systems on sea and land, but lately the British and their new associates in the air, the American flyers, have been giving more attention to the railways of the Rhineland, Holland and Northern France. The Russians, for their part, have been bombing such places as Schneidermuehl, the railway center east of Berlin.
Whether the British are demolishing French and German locomotives, or blowing up what they call the "marshaling yards" of Amiens and Hamm, or devastating the environs of Cologne, they are aiming to paralyze the movement of goods from the Low Countries and France into Germany. They are estimated to have destroyed the equivalent of two years of locomotive building by Germany and France together, and tanks have now been subordinated to locomotives on the priorities.
INTERNAL BLOCKADE'
The only way, for the present, to keep Germany from feeding on the sustenance of the conquered countries is to bomb the railroads and torpedo the coastal steamers which move this food. This is what began to be called the "internal blockade" a year or so ago, but it has been considerably intensified of late. In fact, such has been the effectiveness of these raids that food is reported to be spoiling in French warehouses for lack of the means of moving it, and some of the German schemes for transferring populations have had to be given up. Presumably the only problem the Germans are solving is the scrap supply, for obvious reasons, but they probably lack the means to move the scrap.
There are observers—and not merely typewriter observers—who think the fastest means of reducing Germany's strength is to paralyze her transport system from the air. The bombing of railroad lines was not considered to be very effective when the Germans undertook it over Britain, but the destruction of railroad shops and locomotive works, as in the Cologne area, and of terminal yards and supplies of cars is another thing. As Lord Halifax said in New York recently: "To destroy rolling stock in Northern France is not only to interfere with Germany's surplus in the west; it also causes embarrassment and even dislocation to her communications in the east."
An article by Karl Brandt in the October number of Foreign Affairs says: "The writer is of the opinion that if the bombing attacks were shifted from the industrial centers to the railroads and highways leading to such centers, and if they took place at the critical peak-load periods of the fall and early spring, greater strains and stresses would be created in the German labor situation, food supply and industrial output than by all other bombing methods combined."
AMAZING RESULTS
The preservation of the efficiency of the American railroads is secondary, no doubt, to overcoming the German submarines in the Atlantic and reducing their effects. Perhaps it is for this reason that steel which would otherwise go to building cars and locomotives is being diverted to ships.
Lacking additional equipment for 1943, according to John J. Pealey, president of the Association of American Railroads, our railroads are getting close to the end of their ability to increase the movement of freight. But already they are delivering oil at speeds which Secretary Ickes thought impossible; they are highballing "less than carload" Army material across the country in less than a week; they are subordinating passenger traffic to freight movement and their loadings of freight are running at all-time highs of tonnage.
The co-operation between the Office of Defense Transportation and the railroads, and between the Army and the railroads, seems to be 100 per cent. We have here as fine an example of government and private agencies working together as it seems possible to discover anywhere. Perhaps it's a compound of professional pride and patriotism. The railroad industry has been singularly free of outside accusations of "business as usual" methods, and proposals for the nationalization of the railroads fade from sheer pointlessness.
Copyright, 1942, by the Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.