On the Exit
of Mr. Henderson
BY RAYMOND MOLEX
CHICAGO, Dec. 21.—When Mr. Leon
Henderson, tired, bruised and heavy with
disappointment, goes south to rest mind
and body, we can imagine a gray shade
at Monticello smiling—for Mr. Henderson
is a casualty in the New Deal war on
everything Jefferson taught.
Profoundly convinced of the capacity
of the people to govern themselves, Jefferson
believed that popular government
must work largely through State and
local institutions. He believed that regimentation
from Washington would not
be real self-government, but imposed gov-
ernment. Government of the details of
life from Washington, he said, would be
as hateful as any autocracy. Mr. Roosevelt
and Mr. Jefferson disagree in that Mr.
Roosevelt is a living President, and a gray
shade cannot issue executive orders. But
it can nod a figurative I-told-you-so.
THE REAL REASON
Let us note, however, that nothing
taught by Jefferson contradicts the essential
thing that this administration tried
to do in price control. Control was inevitable,
as almost everyone foresaw long
before the President admitted it. But
the adjustment and administration of price
decrees over a country so vast requires
the fullest use of local institutions. These
institutions, weakened by nine years of
unremitting attack by a central government,
might have permitted many injustices
if vested with more responsibility
over prices. But they would have prevented
the intense indignation which now
drives Mr. Henderson from office. Not
fear of Congress but fear of the country
has finally forced Mr. Roosevelt to permit
his devoted servant to take this final
rap.
Mr. Henderson was in part the creator
of his own misery. Two years ago he said
that voluntary price fixing was adequate.
He acquiesced in the President’s mistaken
policy, tenaciously held until it was too
late, of regimenting prices without limiting
wages. He must have known long
before this autumn that uncontrolled
wages were building an unquenchable
fire. And his refusal to resign earlier was
ultimately no service to his boss or to himself.
That Mr. Henderson was wholly without
the temperament or experience for detailed
bureaucratic administration should
have been known to the President, of
course, and to the President must be assigned
the blame for refusing to appoint
a man capable of handling a large organization
in a highly technical field. Mr.
Henderson is a quasi-philosophic worker
in economic statistics and business problems.
The years had hardened in him the
tendencies of leisurely research, extravagant
speculation and tentative cosmic
planning. Such men are valuable as stimulants
in government. But they are wholly
unsuited to the diplomacy of governmental
relations and the routine of administrative
detail.
‘CRUEL MISTAKES’
It is unfortunate that Mr. Roosevelt
loves such cosmic talkers and mistakenly
believes they can do administrative
tasks well. A string of such cruel mistakes
is strewn back over 10 years. They
are poignantly cruel to the men involved
because most of them are led to the ultimate
end by the very enthusiasm which
the President inspires. They become imbued
with the idea that the Washington
show is a personal matter.
Their devotion to their chief itself prevents
them from realizing that they are
officers of a government and not mere
loyal followers of a leader. It is the spirit
of a football squad dying for a popular
coach rather than that of an orderly government
responsible in detail for legally
defined duties.
But Mr. Henderson leaves with honorable
scars. He stood against selfish interests
with courage. He was months ahead
of his boss in appreciating what could
and could not be done. He did much in
his not always cogent speeches and statements
to awaken the country to the danger
of inflation. His wild and woolly administration
did keep prices from breaking
completely from their moorings. On
sober second thought the country will see
in him a hard-working, zealous man doing
an impossible job with inadequate
tools. If that fact can brighten his retirement,
poultice his bumps and hasten his
return to more appropriate tasks he is
entitled to know it.
Copyright, 1942, by the Chicago Journal of Commerce
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.