Unauthorized
and Irrelevant
BY RAYMOND MOLEY:
There will be fireworks at the meeting
of the Republican National Committee
next month, not only over the selection
of a chairman but over attempts to bring
about the adoption of resounding resolutions
on national and international policy.
There was a time when the national
committee of a party could meet, conduct
its business and adjourn, without falling
victim to the delusion that it was the
constitutional convention or that the
world stood waiting for it to sound off
on one thing or another. But since last
April when the Republican National Com-
mittee, largely at the insistence of Wen-
dell Willkie, adopted resolutions on policy,
preparations have been afoot to get the
committee to go on record with even more
elaborate statements at its forthcoming
meeting. Efforts to hush them will meet
strong resistance for two reasons, both
of which boil down to the same thing—
resolutions of that kind are essentially
futile.
“TRIUMPH OF AMBIGUITY”
The April resolution on foreign policy
was so vague and so general that Republicans
of widely different views could
and did accept it. It was, even more than
most political platforms, a triumph of
ambiguity. The question is whether the
public can be fooled by further word
juggling in December. Another mess of
meaningless words will lessen rather than
increase public respect for a party that
is just reinstating itself in public favor.
Beyond this is the fact that the adoption
of the resolution on foreign policy
last spring was a very questionable exercise
of the Republican National Committee’s
power. To go further in December
will be clearly out of order. The national
committee is governed by 11 very specific
rules made for it by the convention of
the party in 1940. These rules, it should
be emphasized, give the committee no
power to adopt resolutions on public
policies.
The committee itself is created by the
convention which is, in effect, the grand
council of the party.
COMMITTEE’S JOB
The job of the national committee is
merely to hold the party together between
elections. It must not interfere in candidacies.
Its job, as Will Hays once put it,
is to “elect, not select.” Party principles
are shaped by the general discussions
of party members. When the new convention
meets, it creates a committee on
resolutions. Not until then are party
principles solidified into words.
During the next two years many candidates
will appear. They will make speeches
presenting their views on public questions.
The rank and file of the party decide
among candidates in primaries in
some States, in State or local conventions
in others. To try to bind candidates to
the views of the national committee, even
if it were legitimate to do so, would seriously
impair their freedom, and by the
same token limit the freedom of choice
of those who select from among the candidates.
But what the committee can do is to
make wise preparations for the ultimate
selection of party principles.
THE “PRINCIPLES”
To attempt more would merely be to
fall for the absurdity that a bunch of
words is an important part of a political
organization. Everyone knows that parties
go on year after year with loose modifications
of the same “principles.” Often
the “principles” of one party are indistinguishable
from the “principles” of the
other. They are written in haste, passed
without deliberation and charitably forgotten.
A party’s purpose is to govern
or try to govern. When the voters do not
like their government they change parties
just as a man who doesn’t like the way
his hair is cut changes barbers. He is not
impressed by his barber’s speeches or his
barber’s explanation of his theory of hair-
cutting. He judges him by his performance.
He uses a mirror to inform himself.
He doesn’t ask the barber to tell him how
he looks.
A lot of Republicans are now elected
to jobs throughout the country. The voters
will judge the party by what these men
do. They will not give a rap for pious
statements of party policy by the Republican
National Committee or anyone
else at this time.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.