My Trip
The Observations and Reflections of
an Off-the-Record Coast-to-Coast
Traveler.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
[Raymond Moley, early political adviser of
President Roosevelt and now a writer on na-
tional affairs, offers herewith the first of a
regular series of columns which will appear
in The Times several times a week.]
Well, it can all be told now—the author
of this column is able to reveal his where-
abouts these past two or three weeks.
He has been away on a coast-to-coast
trip. He started on Sept. 11 and was back
in his office on Sept. 29, that makes five
days over two weeks. According to the
time tables, he traveled 7651 miles, but
if you add the miles he walked in the
plants and shipyards and trying to find
taxicabs it must have run up close to 8753
miles.
The matter of publicity troubled him
a good deal, so he decided not to let any
other reporters accompany him. He was
not bothered. In fact, he saw no reporters
—unless a man sitting in the diner one
morning with his hat on was a reporter.
There were no pictures or newsreels. A
couple were taken, but a strict self-
imposed censorship must have been ob-
served because despite very careful check-
ing they were not discovered in the
papers. There was a man with a camera
in the park in Los Angeles, but on close
inspection he was found to be snapping
the statue of Beethoven—not your re-
porter.
SEES NEXT GOVERNORS’
Of course these columns had to be writ-
ten regularly, and they had to show where
they were written. But because it takes
a day to get the column printed, the
writer could be in another city before it
appeared.
The trip was nonpolitical. Two speeches
were made but they dealt with inflation,
which, as we all know, is a strictly non-
political subject. Your reporter saw no
Governors. Most of them—especially the
Democrats—are too worried about re-
election to bother with anybody who
doesn’t vote in the State.
The best he could do was to see two
next Governors—Warren in California
and Dewey in New York—also an ex-
Governor with whom he rode to the train,
but it was after dark and there were no
crowds then so he didn’t lose any votes
for the ex-Governor. Anyhow, the ex-
Governor isn’t running for office.
But your reporter saw a lot of things
and heard a lot of things. People talk
freely if they know they will not be
directly quoted. They will talk to you
more freely if they know you are not
from Washington.
A lot of them said that production is
good but could be better if Washington
could be more definite and final in speci-
fications. Others said that morale would
be better in the plants if there were not
so many conflicting statements from offi-
cial sources with respect to demands for
man power—workers find it hard to plan
ahead.
Others are terribly confused about in-
flation and how the new controls are
going to operate. They think that there
has been too much politics in handling
inflation measures and taxes.
YOU CAN LEARN THINGS
People who must use automobiles to
keep life going are afraid that in gas ra-
tioning a proper differentiation will not
be made between sections where cars are
indispensable and other sections where
more adequate transportation facilities
exist and greater restrictions can be im-
posed.
Many managers of industry are con-
cerned about conflicting antitrust policies
that have appeared recently.
Everybody is sore about the alarmist
and complaining statements that have
come from four or five high officials re-
cently. They remember that a month
ago the President told people down there
to shut up.
But the production picture is great.
Bigger and better planes are rolling out.
Shipbuilding is amazing. The only trou-
ble there is that Washington censorship
keeps the public from knowing a lot of
things about production that would help
morale a lot.
Such a trip is a genuine inspiration.
A lot of jittery Washington people would
be helped by such a journey. One official
who just came back said he found the
morale of the country better than the
morale of Washington and that the high
production goals set by the President
would be achieved by American indus-
try. That shows that things can be learned
on a trip.
(Copyright 1942 by the Chicago Journal
of Commerce Syndicate)
This is America
Chicago Daily News
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.