Advertising
in Wartime
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CHICAGO, Oct. 13—Undersecretary of
War Patterson has just announced a workable
policy with reference to advertising
allowances to companies engaged in war
work. In general, he has followed the
policy announced by the Treasury early
this summer. This means the end of at
least one controversy between business
and government in which the calmer and
better heads of the administration have
prevailed.
Throughout the Roosevelt administration
there has been a good deal of argument
over the question of the public interest in
advertising. Some of the more zealous
New Dealers have fanned this flame with
intemperate attacks. Hence, when in 1940
the production of the country began to flow
into government channels, the fear was
pretty general that the government would
make few concessions to advertising costs.
Why, some people asked, should the
government permit advertising costs when
the major customer was government itself?
And why should a producer advertise when
he had nothing to sell to the public?
A LOSS ALL AROUND
The answer of the advertiser was simple
and conclusive—the company with
nothing to sell to the public was exactly
the company that needed to preserve its
good name and good will during the
emergency, otherwise the company which
was giving most to the government in
wartime would find itself forgotten and
bankrupt after the war. It has been
conclusively proved that those companies
which failed to keep their names alive
during the last war either failed or suffered
a ruinous decline of business after the war
was over. That was, of course, a net loss
all around. It made for unemployment,
the loss of savings and a lowered standard
of living.
After a great deal of consideration the
Treasury, through Secretary Morgenthau,
announced last May a formula to be
followed in tax collecting. The test of
whether expenditures for advertising are
deductible, he said, is whether they are
ordinary and necessary and bear a reasonable
relation to the business activities in which
the enterprise is engaged. This is not
intended to exclude institutional advertising
in reasonable amounts or good will advertising
calculated to influence the buying habits of
the public. If such expenditures are extravagant
and out of proportion to the size of the
company or to the amount of its advertising
budget in the past, or if they are not
directed to public patronage which might
reasonably be expected in the future, such
payments will be disallowed as deductions.
FAIR STANDARD
The fairness of this standard was generally
recognized by all concerned. It properly
protected the public against tax avoidance
through unusual expenditures on advertising
but at the same time it allowed companies
to maintain their good will with the public
and to prepare for the resumption of
peacetime business after the war.
But a more difficult problem arose in
connection with the great purchasing
departments of the government, notably the
Army and Navy and the Maritime
Commission. Their problem was to protect
the government against excessive costs in
war contracts and at the same time to
protect the legitimate rights of companies
that were turning from peacetime to
wartime production.
After a great deal of discussion, however,
in which the Advertising Federation of
America played a useful part, Donald
Nelson evolved a formula which in general
followed the Treasury policy. He presented
this formula to the procurement agencies
and now Mr. Patterson has announced that
the War and Navy departments and the
Maritime Commission have recognized that
it may be necessary for producers to keep
their names and the names of their peacetime
products before the consuming public in
order to maintain good will and be in a good
position more effectively to regain their
normal markets after the war is won.
This has also been recommended to the
Senate Finance Committee as a basis for
legislation governing the renegotiation of
contracts.
On this sector of the domestic front, it
looks as if reason and good will have
prevailed. Nothing could contribute more
to a stabilization of conditions after the
war. Mass production and vast consuming
power depend upon a lively public
consciousness of what is for sale. A big
demand supports big production at lower
prices. That means more employment,
more spending and a higher standard of
living. Advertising is an indispensable
factor in this whole process.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.