Business Given
New Hope
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
SYRACUSE, N.Y. The evidence is
strong here, just as it has been all over
the country for the past few weeks, that
industrial leaders are shaking off long
accumulated layers of pessimism. Many of
them were so depressed a few months ago
that they refused to believe in the future
of private enterprise. Now, they say, they
can see hope. More positively still, some
of them bluntly state that they believe
the tide toward collectivism has turned.
The news reflects this changed spirit.
Bendix has decided to fight on the anti-
trust line. There is a stiffening resistance
against unwarranted uses of war powers
to further the closed shop. Montgomery
Ward's courageous stand against mainte-
nance-of-membership is a strategic victory
for private industry even though the
company was forced by the President to
comply with the N.W.L.B.'s order. For
the administration had to bring out its
biggest gun to get that compliance. In
so doing, it confessed to the country that
it could not expect Congress to back up
its maintenance-of-membership policy.
RESISTANCE TO POWERS
Meantime, resistance to extreme war
powers is developing in Congress. The
President is plainly going to find severe
limitations on any grant of power over
tariffs and immigration which Congress
gives him. Privately, Democratic leaders
admit that little legislation except tax bills
will get through the new Congress. They
add, significantly, that they fail to see
the need for further restrictions on business
in the shape of reform measures.
So a turning point of sorts has obviously
been reached. As the prospect of a shorter
war than most Americans dreamed of two
months back begins to mount, it looks as
if we might well go into the postwar era
with Communism and statism, in this
country at least, on the decline.
For a long time it was assumed that
since England seemed to be moving faster
and faster in the direction of socialism, we
would inevitably be caught in the vortex.
We have reason for feeling now not only
that this country will survive the war in
a dominant economic position, but that its
example will help curb Britain's drift.
Already there is evidence that the fatalism
of English industrial leaders is waning.
An article in the Sept. 25, 1942, issue of
"The Statist," a London publication, presents
a definition of individualism that
every American who believes in the future
of his own country could ponder with
profit.
INDIVIDUALISM'S PLACE
Answering the old complaint recently
voiced by Dean Wayne Morse of the
N.W.L.B. that there is something vicious
and outworn in the term individualism,
"The Statist" says:
"Individualism, which in industry and
trade is expressed as private enterprise,
was primarily a doctrine of social responsibility.
It holds that a man must, by the
cultivation of his qualities and the exercise
of his energy and courage, make himself
a valuable social unit, and that he
must not look for nurture throughout his
life from either the state or any other
agency of support. It holds that a business
must prove its value to the community
by being able to attract, through its economy
and efficiency, public support for its
activities or products. Individualism denies,
for example, that a useless business
or a business unable to be efficient or
economical may call on the community
for a bounty from the rates or the taxes
to repair its deficiencies. It denies that a
body of bureaucrats or elected representatives
can know better than the creators
and directors of a business how that business
shall be run... The real individual-
ist would go further and say that the
state has a duty to protect its citizens
against the tyranny of the state itself..."
Then boldly the publication concludes:
"The sane man would surely say that all
that remains is to cast off the unnecessary
shackles which have been clapped
on to private enterprise by theorists,
bureaucrats and ambitious vote-catching
politicians, and to permit the ancient
British qualities to have full play in an
unfettered system of manufacture and
trade, the state then drawing sufficient
taxation from the result to cover the
minimum communal enterprises in which
the state must indulge. There is nothing
wild about such a system: it is that under
which Britain flourished and led the
world."
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.