'Washington Wept Here'

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The extraordinary reticence of official Washington on the fourth-term issue is raising the inevitable question everywhere. This reporter hears it more frequently than any other question. But if the Washington's Birthday celebration (at $100 a plate) of the achievements, prosperity and prospects of the Democratic party was intended to hint at the answer or, more specifically, to generate the fine frenzy of party enthusiasm that would make the answer a foregone conclusion, it must be reckoned a flop. The seizure of Washington's Birthday as incidentally, What has the occasion for a party feast, raises a pertinent question. What has a party saint, Andrew Jackson? For over a hundred years his memory was celebrated by loyal Democrats. Then, three years of research explained the pall of gloom which seemed to fall over the annual occasion of Democratic reminiscence.

OF ALL THINGS!

It was discovered that the original Jackson dinner which took place in Brown's Hotel in Washington on Jan. 8, 1835—the 20th anniversary of the Jackson victory at New Orleans—was held and so announced by The Globe, semiofficial organ of the Jackson administration, in honor of all things, "of the extinguishment of the national debt." It was further found that the patron saint of the Democratic party did not attend that first dinner of 1835. He was sitting in the White House, happy and triumphant, smoking his reed pipe. But he sent a message, a toast to the diners. That message was no literary achievement. It was not embellished by scriptural quotations. It said, simply: "The payment of the public debt. Let us commemorate it as an event which gives us increased power as a nation, and reflects luster on our Union of whose fidelity and wisdom it is a glorious illustration." Somehow, even before the great legitimate present debt for war purposes began to mount upon the top of the peacetime debt, that reminder of Jackson's stern philosophy made the celebration look pretty name by New Deal Democrats long ago.

ORATOR WALLACE

So, in solemn conclave in 1943, those veterans in public service, still more experienced, a bit more gray and toilworn, turned to the more distinguished auspices of the Father of His Country. Jackson was laid aside for more propitious times. Henry Wallace, Jacksonian Democrat, the recently adopted son. His Democracy is that of conviction, not tradition. But tradition is a virtue no longer cherished by Mr. Wallace "to abstain from the vital rarefied air of Washington. That, perhaps, made it seem a trifle less incongruous when the Democrats were admonished by Mr. Wallace "to abstain from bitter attacks upon partisan opponents," while, in the same breath, he charged that a political opponent gave the President advice in 1918 that would have lost the war. If, as persistent inference has it, Mr. Hoover is the target for this charge, it should be said that Mr. Wallace was not vocal in his denunciations in 1920. He may not have known it then, but since his father was a colleague of Mr. Hoover in the Harding Cabinet, his information must have been fairly good in those days. Yet, as the President quoted, "So persecuted they the prophets which were before you."

[Note—A Washington correspondent, John O'Donnell quotes a guest at the Washington's Birthday Democratic dinner. After it was over, the party leader observed tartly, "Washington wept here."]

Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.