Higher Education and New Draft
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The passage of the 18 1 year-old draft
is certain to make vast charges in our
colleges for the duration, although those
changes will be neither so revolutionary
nor so permanent as some people predict.
Testimony on the bill clearly revealed
the Army opinion which has been shaping
up in the last few months. That opinion
points in the direction of a larger
use of those institutions qualified to teach
the things that officers must know. Some
informed people believe that those institutions will be training centers for the
armed services and that the colleges thus
used will run as high as 70 per cent of
the institutions of higher learning. Schools
unable to provide the kind of instruction
required would continue on a considerably reduced scale.
The bearing of the new draft on higher
education was touched upon here and
there in the recent hearing. Perhaps the
most informative discussion was that of
Brig. Gen. M. G. White of the General
Staff. He said that the Army was developing plans to send its brightest soldiers to
college for technical training.
DEFINITE PROGRAM
Under that plan there would be no
educational deferments, but men with
special aptitudes would go to college as
part of a definite program. There would
be constant "screening" so that men who
failed to keep up would be taken out at
once. Leading educators are now working
with the Army on such a program, which
they hope to have ready within six weeks,
said Gen. White. It will probably be ready
well before that.
Observation of life on several campuses
during the last few days indicates to
this reporter that students are taking the
possibility and the new potentialities of
their service very seriously. Few of the
old free and easy ways have survived.
The first three months of the new accelerated work have put the boys on their
mettle. Many have dropped out voluntarily, many have been dropped for failure
to keep up with the speed-up. Faculties
and administrative officers have been
working under steadily increasing loads,
as younger instructors moved into the
armed forces themselves or were drawn
into other forms of government work.
BORROWED TIME
As to the students, they have known
clearly since late July or early August
that they were in college, as a War Department official put it, on "borrowed
time." There is no question in their minds
now that before long they must take
their places in the services. Where they
are used will depend upon how well they
are prepared, and that in turn will depend
upon hard work and courses directed to
military service.
Two factors will no doubt influence future plans of the government in cooperating with the colleges. The first is the
fact that the colleges are now far better
prepared to adapt themselves to the needs
of war than they were 25 years ago. Their
laboratory equipment and teaching staffs
in science, mechanics and related subjects
are a resource of immense value to a
nation training millions of men. The second consideration which will affect the
course taken by government in its relation to the colleges is the obvious need
for helping able boys now subject to the
draft who cannot attend college on their
own financial resources. The War Department intimates that such aid will be
forthcoming.
WIDE DISCRETION
Clearly, Congress could not, within the
scope of its bill, make provision for the
problems involved in using the colleges
for war purposes. Gen. Marshall pointed
out that there was every disposition to
provide for adequate training for men expected to assume war burdens. He and his
colleagues asked for wide discretion. Now
they have received it. That is fortunate,
because an Army of over 7,000,000 men
and a huge Navy still growing will require the training of literally thousands
of qualified officers. The problem of utilizing the colleges to help provide such officer material demands detailed long-range
planning.
Neither the expanded use of the colleges for military training, nor the designation by the government of young men
to receive such training, nor the financial
assistance given by the government to
make it possible, need permanently impair the freedom of the institutions of
higher education. The men who directed
the armed forces in this country are not
disposed to recast American education
into a propagandist mold. The Army and
Navy have a job to be done and done
quickly. They can get it done with greater
speed and efficiency if they have the cooperation of the college authorities. Then,
when peace comes, colleges can resume
those aspects of liberal education that
must now take second place.
Meantime, there can be no doubt that
the sending of able draftees to the colleges by government will provide a democratization of opportunity that will be
good for the colleges and good for all the
students.
Copyright 1942 by the Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Just Curious
The country vicar was nailing some
trelliswork in his garden when he saw
a London evacuee boy watching him. With
a pleasant smile he said:
"Well, my little man, are you interested
in woodwork or gardening?"
"Not me, guv'nor," said the boy. "I'm
just waitin' to 'ear what a parson says
when 'e 'its 'is thumb'."—[Montreal Daily
Star