The Donkey
Displays Pains
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Washington talk to the effect that last
week's meeting of western Democratic
leaders in Omaha was unimportant must
be taken with a large lump of salt. The
administration would like to believe, or
have the country believe, that it foreshadowed
no party troubles. But it was
an important symptom that the party's
health is extremely poor.
To begin with, the meeting was called
by State leaders west of the Mississippi
without any asking of leave from President
Roosevelt or Chairman Flynn. Next,
it was openly stated by those who called
it that its purpose was to "probe the ailments"
of the party.
The States represented by their national
committeemen were those in which Democratic
candidates in November had taken
a terrific beating, namely, Nebraska, Iowa,
Kansas, Colorado, Wyoming, North and
South Dakota, Minnesota and Missouri.
When the news of the proposed meeting
reached Washington, the President appears
to have sent posthaste to Omaha,
not Chairman Flynn, but Vice-Chairman
Oscar Ewing. Mr. Ewing had to crash the
gate.
STRONG DISCONTENT
The fact is that even before the election
there was strong discontent among
leaders west of the Mississippi. It was
outspoken at the meeting. There is no
enthusiasm about the prospect of a fourth
term. Nor is there enthusiasm for Mr.
Wallace as heir apparent; in fact, there
is downright hostility. Sentiment for
Messrs. McNutt and Byrnes is almost non-
existent. There is bitter resentment over
the alliance between the administration
and leaders of labor. There is unadulterated
hatred for the radical element
in the administration. Meantime, western
Democrats, who never liked the administration's
alliance with bosses in New
York City, Jersey City and Chicago, are
now convinced that the New Deal traded
off the West and South for the mass vote
in northern cities, and see in the constant
appeals to the city vote a fatal repudiation
of the party tradition, from
Jefferson on. If these grievances continue
to fester, it is clear that the party will
have ailments that may well bring it low
in 1944.
Over in Kansas, the most famous Democrat
of the State, ex-Governor and ex-
Secretary of War Harry Woodring, made
no bones last week of his attitude. He
said that "the rights of our citizens and
their preservation" are more important
than "the success of any political party."
It may be necessary, he added pointedly,
to establish a new party "directly representative
of the basic industry of the
country, agriculture."
The bad news for the Democratic party
comes from the South as well as the West.
While the irate Westerners were on their
way to Omaha, Governor Frank M. Dixon
of Alabama charged the administration
with endangering the party by creating
a central bureaucracy and by "stupid tampering"
with the racial problems of the
South. "Crackpot reformers," he said,
caused the Democratic defeat in November.
"Suggestions are rife," he continued,
"as to the formation of a southern Democratic
party, the election of unpledged
representatives to the Electoral College.
Ways and means are being discussed daily
to break our chains."
POSSIBLE PROCEDURE
These threatening signs come at the
moment when a considerable number of
Republican leaders are trying to achieve
a working alliance between their party
and disaffected Democrats to carry the
next Presidential election. There would
be insuperable legal and practical difficulties
in the way of a brand new party. But
some such method as Governor Dixon suggests
could conceivably be used. The Republican
party might nominate a Presidential
candidate who would get the votes
of unpledged electors from southern and
border States and select, as part of the
deal, a Democrat as Vice-Presidential candidate.
The philosophy of such a revolt will be
centered in strong traditions—in States'
rights, in the Bill of Rights, in distaste
for bureaucracy, in a belief of party versus
personal government and in a desire for
economy. Manifestations of this spirit
will most certainly appear in the new Congress,
for the revolt in the West and
South is spreading.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.