F.D.R. Makes
Real Sacrifice
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The fact that mention of domestic poli-
tics, notably social security, was severely
limited in the President's message to Con-
gress was probably due to considerations
that influenced his judgment not long be-
fore the document was released.
The first was the rule any public man
learns in years of speechmaking. Simply
stated, that rule tells the speaker to ask
himself what he wants in the headlines.
The President wanted the speech to por-
tray the successful prosecution of the
war at home and abroad and to proclaim
that he had kept faith, in 1942, with his
stated objectives in military strategy and
war production. The message did that
with a bang, thanks largely to the in-
credible achievements of American in-
dustry.
The 1942 figures for attainment were
not drawn out of a hat, he said. Well,
whether or not they come out of a hat,
they were substantially met by our in-
dustry. And the message was generous
enough to indicate that the meeting of
the great over-all production objectives
for planes and tanks was made more dif-
ficult by constant changes and enlarge-
ments of models. For these achievements
the President credited government and
industry jointly. That will be the thing
that sticks with people. It would not
stick in their minds if the message had
blurred it over with controversial domes-
tic matters.
ALL-OUT WAR MESSAGE
The second consideration that led to
the omission of domestic matters was the
fact that the President wished to estab-
lish its character as an all-out war mes-
sage, suited to the critical turn of the
war. As he said, "At this critical period
of the war, we should confine ourselves
to the larger objectives and not get bogged
down over methods and details." That
took a terrific worry off the minds of
the leaders of his party in Congress. It
was what they wanted, probably what
they begged him to do. Now for a time
they can enjoy a measure of peace with-
out thinking of domestic reform.
The third consideration is clear but
less obvious. We all remember when the
President likened his relation to Congress
to that of a quarterback, calling the plays
and serving as a pivot in the attack. That
figure of speech was based on the assump-
tion that his side would continue to have
the ball. But to all intents and purposes
the other team has the ball now, Congress-
wise. So the quarterback becomes the
"safety man." He stands between the team
and the goal line.
The message suggests that the other
team call a few plays and that the Demo-
cratic line in Congress hold them. If it
breaks through, there is the "safety man."
"If the security of men and women
should become the subject of national
debate," the President said, "the coun-
try knows where I stand." It might have
been said further that if there is any
fumbling, he will be on top of the ball
in a flash. Let there be no doubt about
that.
GRAVE RESPONSIBILITY
The text of the message and the cal-
culated intonations in its delivery made
it clear that Mr. Roosevelt relinquished
a broad elaboration of social security pol-
icy with great reluctance. In his with-
drawal he made it plain that he would
be on guard. We shall hear more, much
more, of "cradle to the grave" security.
The President's new strategy—the
strategy of letting Congress take the
initiative on social security—puts a very
great responsibility upon the Republican
minority in Congress and, it should be
added, upon every Republican Governor.
The country is committed to some form
of social security. We have a system
now, entered into with a good deal of
haste, which has grave defects. Those
defects cannot be remedied by reckless
extensions of the obligations of govern-
ment. They cannot be remedied by piling
up more bureaucracy. They cannot be
remedied by copying from abroad. The
Beveridge plan is no model for us. The
party that expects to win in 1944 must
have an intelligently conceived program
to reform the social security system that
we now have.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.