MacArthur
and the Voters
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
LOS ANGELES, Jan. 3.—Out
here the name of MacArthur
crops up in every political conversation.
Those who are trying
to appraise present sentiment as to which Republican is
most likely to be nominated put
Dewey first and Willkie second.
But behind all this there is a
sound admiration for MacArthur
a belief that if he should be
nominated, he would be a strong
candidate and that, if elected, he
would be a good President.
Within the month, political travelers in the Middle West report
growing MacArthur strength.
The general is going to be a factor to be reckoned with unless
he withdraws his name from the
speculation. Whether he does
that is something no one but he
can decide.
The argument for MacArthur
as a candidate has many impressive points. He is a military
leader of the first order. The
testimony on this comes from
every person qualified to express
an opinion with whom I talked.
EXECUTIVE CAPACITY
Picayunish stuff from some
war correspondents and others
about what MacArthur did or
did not do can be disregarded.
Usually such criticism goes back
to a dislike of his manner or of
the language of his public statements. It has nothing to do
with his stature as a commander.
(Obviously, he could not have
carried out the assignments he
has had without executive capacity of a very high order.
This is a matter to be heavily
weighed in any Presidential
prospect.
MacArthur’s views on public
issues in the domestic and international fields are unknown, except
that they seem to be conservative. He has, however, the
capacity of expressing things in
those unmistakable simple and
moving terms which suggest
that the quality of statesmanship may lie under his uniform.
He is a man in the classic pattern.
A STATEMENT?
Throughout the country the
feeling persists that MacArthur
has been treated by the high
command in Washington with
something less than the consideration he deserves. It has been
pointed out that he has been a
notable absentee from all the
great conferences, notably at
Cairo. If anything will enhance
his importance as a prospective
Presidential draftee, it will be a
growth of this feeling.
There are those who say that
American people, in their search
for a President, are entitled to
an expression of opinion from
all of their preferences. Just
now that could be arranged in
MacArthur’s case is difficult to
suggest. In his position, he is
subject to the discipline of his
superior officers, and the rules
of his service are pretty clear—
but as to political expressions
from military men, especially in
war. But this is an exceptional
case, and exceptional cases are
often allowed exceptional privileges. That, of course, rests
with Gen. MacArthur and with
his superiors.
Copyright, 1944. Chicago Journal
of Commerce.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.