Rome's Bombing
and the Pope
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The statement of Pope Pius XII about
the bombing of Rome definitely did not
place the blame for the act upon the
United Nations. This is a fact overlooked
by a good many people who have expressed
themselves on the subject. To
overlook that fact is to do a great injustice
to the Pope's statesmanship and to
his intention.
The statement was in the great tradition
of papal diplomacy. It stressed the
incomparably precious value of Rome. It
mourned the devastation of war; but it
clearly avoided judgment on the issue of
whether condemnation should rest upon
the Italian military authorities who used
Rome as a base of operations or the United
Nations military authorities who decided
that those operations must be attacked. In
short, the Pope's statement
simply deplored the horror and destructiveness
of war as an institution.
PERSONAL HEROISM
As Apostolic Nuncio to Bavaria, Pius
XII was stationed in Germany during the
last war. As is well known, he labored
unceasingly to bring that war to a close.
Few realize how close he came to ending
it in 1917, although many know
of his heroism in revolutionary Munich
in 1919. By right of his personal qualities
he is a very great man. As sole
European ruler of stature outside the
orbit of war, his potentialities for the
future pacification of Europe are incalculable.
It is important to note that he
has clearly left himself in a position to
exert his great influence on behalf of
getting Italy out of the war.
Significantly such American prelates as
Cardinal O'Connell, the patriarch of them
all, and most others expressed sorrow
without passing judgment on the circumstances
which caused the bombing. Bishop
Joseph P. Hurley of St. Augustine chose
a somewhat different position, however.
He definitely blamed the United Nations
for the bombing, saying in substance that
he considered that "national unity" here
and our prestige abroad should have outweighed
the military dictates which
sought to save American and British lives
by preventing Axis reinforcements from
passing through Rome.
A DIFFERENT OPINION
There will certainly be disagreement
with Bishop Hurley's judgment of relative
values. Curiously, in 1941, he had a
quite different opinion about the attitude
that Americans should have toward Presidential
discretion. Speaking in Washington
in July of that year, he said that
"the declaration of war, the constitutional
prerogative of the Congress, is no longer
in style... We have already left the
political and diplomatic zone and have
entered the zone of strategy."
"Since our problem is primarily a strategic
one," he continued, "It should be
left to the Commander-in-Chief, who alone,
in constant loyal communication with
Congress and in consultation with his
military and naval advisers, is capable of
bringing us safely through the dangers
which encompass us."
Some of us feel differently about the
discretion that should be exercised by
the President. In time of peace his power
to involve us in war should be restricted
by public discussion and by the constitutional
power of Congress to declare
war. In time of war his judgment on matters
of strategy, such as the decision to
bomb Rome, should be respected.
When, as the pictures show, a military
barracks is located within the space of a
few blocks from the Vatican City, condemnation
should be limited to the brutal
and cowardly dictator who put that barracks
there.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.