Nazi-Junker
Contrast Noted
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Prime Minister Churchill made abundantly clear in his Commons speech why he considers any peace dealing with Germany a matter completely unlike those which concerned Italy. "The Nazi tyranny and Prussian militarism are the two main elements in German life that must be destroyed," he said. "The core of Germany is Prussia. There is the source of the recurring pestilence."
The Prime Minister is viewing Prussian militarism from a long sweep of history, and his estimate of that delusive mania is no exaggeration. But it is doubtful if he has fully expressed the extent to which the Nazi delusion has supplemented the older one. For Nazism is more than tyranny. It has fastened itself upon an element in the population never identified with the Junkers, and its spread is over all Germany, not Prussia alone.
NOTHING BEHIND NAZIS
The Junkers class was an established ruling class. It supplied officers for the army, officials for the government and, to a degree, intellectuals for the universities. It held great wealth in land. It had reverence for its families and for the monarchy. There were good and bad Junkers. If the tradition of Bismarck had been followed, two world wars might have been prevented.
The Nazi crowd has nothing like that behind it—no family tradition, no respect for culture, no moral principles, and no experience in government, but the Nazis have enlisted to an extent never possible for the Junkers the allegiance of a vast number of little fellows who have a great deal to do with the psychology of a people. These "little men"—schoolmasters, retailers and burghers of all sorts—were ruined by inflation. They turned their resentment upon the Junkers and the peace which the Junkers accepted at Versailles. These prejudices were skillfully played upon by Hitler and his crowd. The purge of 1934 was as definitely directed against the Junkers as against traitors in the Nazi camp. Its purpose was to establish Nazi, rather than Junker, influence in the army.
TWO DELUSIONS BUILT UP
The German schoolmaster under Hitler has helped to build up two delusions, an old one and a new one. The old one was the concept of Lebensraum, which taught the necessity of expansion, despite all the facts that science and technology had taught about how to support more people on less land. The second delusion was the Hitlerian dream of a Socialist dictatorship, built on the ruins of the old German order, destined for world conquest and assuming the supremacy of a pure race.
The hanging of Hitler and his gang, coupled with complete disarmament, is not going to reach the roots of this false education. Nor will Henry Wallace's proposal for Allied supervision of schools. Perhaps the old false ideas will die out after 25 years of watchful waiting, with total disarmament and reasonable freedom of trade. This will be sufficient, at any rate, to bring into the schools a new generation of teachers.
Moltke said that the Prussian schoolmaster won the war of 1866. The Nazi schoolmaster has done more than that; he has brought his nation to the verge of ruin.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.