Foreign Policy
and the G.O.P.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In his Ottawa speech, President Roosevelt said that "there is a longing in the
air." Just what the longing is all about
he did not explain, but of one thing we
can be certain. If there is any language
coming over the air to satisfy people's
longings for coherent postwar international
plans, it is certainly not coming from Mr.
Roosevelt or members of his administration.
By a strange paradox it is coming from
members of the Republican party who,
only a little while ago, were denounced
as "isolationist," "barren of ideas" and "reactionary."
Hoover, Landon, Bricker, Kelland, Taft
and Vandenberg have all made constructive
suggestions about postwar international
co-operation which have struck a
responsive popular note. What each of
them has to say, moreover, has been sufficiently
alike to warrant the belief that
their views can be reconciled in a constructive
party faith. The Mackinac conference a
week hence may reveal further
party unity.
WHAT IS THE POLICY?
On the President's side, we find indefiniteness and apology for even the small
bits of policy revealed in the past. The
Ottawa speech was utterly lacking in suggestions
to enlighten the American public
about what the objectives of the war
really are. Nor did it so much as hint how,
by the winged words of our leaders, we
can break the morale of our enemies. Our
foreign propaganda is manfully pouring
out a stream of words by radio, pamphlet
and the like, but it is clear that the people
in charge of that propaganda, through no
fault of their own, cannot find out what
the foreign policy of their government
really is from day to day.
Both in his Ottawa speech and in his
report to Congress on lend-lease, the President
seemed to be exceedingly irritated
at those who have asked for specifications
about the Atlantic Charter and the four
freedoms. But isn't it about time for those
generalities to be elaborated by those who
created them? First we are told that the
terms are to be "unconditional surrender."
Then in the lend-lease message we hear
that "unconditional surrender" does not
mean "unconditional." Mr. Roosevelt's lend-
lease letter must have been inspired by
one of his playwright literary assistants,
for it has a certain light-opera touch.
"What, never? No, never! What, never?
Hardly ever!"
ROOT OF TROUBLE
Congress is given the astounding information
that lend-lease actually did not
mean lend-lease at all. It was, it appears,
not lending but giving. All this, despite
Congress' elaborate legal provision for
keeping books and for repayment in kind,
or almost kind!
Perhaps the root of the trouble is the
fact that the New Deal came to office without
a tradition in foreign policy. True, the
Democratic party had Wilson and Internationalism.
But neither the President, nor
Secretary Hull, nor Undersecretary Welles,
nor Vice-President Wallace has proposed
that the administration rest its case on
the Wilson tradition. The Republican party,
on the other hand, has a tradition in
foreign policy. The most illustrious Secretaries of
State in the past century have
all been Republicans. Despite the mistakes,
the thread of policy through their precedents
has been clear.
It may be that the voters next year
will prefer a party with an acknowledged,
though not perfect, past to the continuation
of an administration which is by no
means lucid or frank about its future and
wholly silent about its past.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Britain and Canada Do It
Christian Science Monitor
Inflation—higher living costs—is today
taxing the average family 25 per cent.
Moreover, the dizzy spiral caused by each
organized group pressing for higher pay
or prices threatens to break out of all
control. If it should, the damage will be
only less than that from an invasion. The
remedy? First, awareness of the danger.
There are so many producing groups who
find a mild inflation very pleasant that
only an awakened and militant stand by
the great body of consumers will make it
politically possible to lay the taxes and
maintain the wage and price controls that
will stop inflation. But Canada has done
it. And so has Britain. By Spartan methods.
Britain last year devoted only 61
per cent of her national income to civilian
consumption. The American figure was 79
per cent (an actual increase of nearly 10
per cent over 1939.)
Imagination
Indianapolis News
An optimist is a fellow who thinks
Henry Wallace has a political future.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.