Something Odd
in Nazi Retreat?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Since the speed of the Russian westward advance seems a flat contradiction of the Anglo-American official warnings about Germany's capacity to hold out, a flock of rumors persists to the effect that there is something odd about the Nazi retreat. Any such inference is quite unnecessary, for there is plenty of evidence that the Germans did not march into Russia merely to march out again. That evidence indicates plainly that a year ago Germany believed that it had permanently acquired the Ukraine.
An examination of the Swiss newspapers over the last summer reveals many details of extensive German colonization in the occupied territory. Considerable numbers of peasants and their families were settled there, with facilities for cultivating the soil and for raising cattle and sheep. According to Swiss accounts, these settlers were mostly German and Rumanian, but among them were also some Dutch and Scandinavians.
NOT TO BE RESETTLED
Rumanian territorial expansion extended beyond the Dniester River. A new province created there is called "Transniestria." It was formally annexed to Rumania with all the rigmarole usually observed by Hitler in assigning territory to another country, including, as in other regions, a sizable debt to Germany to be paid off by the new province.
The unfortunate settlers will, of course, be resettled now, with considerably less kindness than Mr. Tugwell bestowed upon our own New Deal experiments. An even harsher fate awaits those Kuban Cossacks who threw in their lot with the Germans. It is significant that current dispatches say that soldiers "and civilians" are being evacuated from the Kuban. It seems that numerous Kuban Cossacks northeast of the Black Sea never fully acknowledged the authority of the Soviet government. When the Germans came into the region last year they joined them. In the retreat they have frantically followed the Germans. Those who fell behind were zestfully hanged and shot by the Reds. Current reports seem to indicate that some of the Kuban Cossacks are saving their necks by trailing along with the retreating Germans. How far they will be carried no one knows.
AN UNDERESTIMATE?
It is clear that Stalin's fury toward Germany and Rumania has been given a fine edge by their assumption that the rich territory covered by the German advance was, in fact, becoming a permanent possession of theirs.
There is nothing in the picture of what is happening in Russia to suggest anything planned. It is the retreat of a beaten enemy in the face of superior forces. The Nazi divisions, withdrawn to compensate for the liquidation of Italian forces in Italy, Greece and the Balkans, have facilitated the Russian advance, and the grim threat of winter hangs over it all. The old Dvinsk-Minsk-Pinsk Line (the so-called Moltke Line,) may be the first stop in the Nazis historic retreat; and that line, too, may fall.
There is, of course, the possibility that Germany, conscious of her coming defeat, may be on the way to getting off Russian soil as a preliminary to suing for peace. If so, the Nazis may well be grossly underestimating the fury their actions have stirred in Russia.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.