The Shutdown
of Gold Mines
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Not the latest of California's complaints about Washington miscalculation and mismanagement has been the virtual closing of gold mines by W.P.B. Order L-20S. The order was issued in October to take effect Dec. 7, 1942.
Along with other States California made a hard fight against this order. Twenty-two Senators made an unavailing request to the White House for delay and investigation. The chief reason given in Washington for the order was to release gold miners for work in copper and other nonferrous mining operations. Extravagant claims were made as to the number of men who would move into other mining operations. The proponents of the order claimed that between 4000 and 10,000 men would be released throughout the nation for copper mining. The gold people in Washington predicted a figure of not over 1000. Their predictions were disregarded and their objections to the shutting down of gold mining were overruled. It looks now as if they were right and the government wrong.
FEW GO TO OTHER JOBS
A high official in California's State government told this reporter last week that of the 23,000 gold miners in the State not over 300 to 400 have gone into other mining jobs. Reliable estimates in New York indicate that the order has not resulted in the transfer of over 1000 nonferrous miners throughout the nation.
To achieve this small gain in manpower, an industry vital to more than a dozen Northern California counties has been prostrated. Closed mines are headed for rapid deterioration because of timber decay, ground caves and underground floods. Thousands of workers are idle. The young men, of course, have been drawn into the services. The older men simply remain idle around their homes.
In the controversy over the order it was said that organized labor had a distinct interest in the shift of men from unorganized gold mining to organized mining of other kinds. It was also pointed out that it was a strange policy that directed the buying of the government's gold abroad while it closed its own sources of production at home.
SHOULD BE CLEARED UP
As the futility, inequality and wastefulness of the order have become apparent, a number of back doors have been opened. The W.P.B. has permitted the resumption of operations at some mines with the distinct provision that no strategic materials be used and that only old or infirm men be employed. But the economic distress and the suspicions aroused by the original order persist.
In the present mood for investigation Congress might well look into a number of questions raised by the closing of the gold mines. What was the whole story of the order? Who were the people who actively supported it? What have been the gold-buying policies of the government in foreign countries while this drastic curtailment of an American industry was carried out? What is the status of the mining industries affected, union-wise? What actually has been accomplished by the order?
Since morale is better built by removal of valid reasons for discontent than by exhortation, here is a place and a way to cure a festering spot in national unity.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.