Trying to Live
by Slide Rule
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The battle of statistics between the
A.F.L., C.I.O. and the
Department of Labor on living
costs points to a challenge to the
whole concept of government by
statistics. Last week the labor
members of the President's committee on the cost of living presented a formidable report sharply disagreeing with the whole statistical basis of the Labor Department's index. It is worthless, says the labor report, as a means of adjusting wages to the cost of living.
An examination of the 75 pages of the report convinces this non-statistical observer that while it says much that is debatable, it also says enough to knock one of the President's most favored brain-children into a cocked hat. That child is the "Little Steel" formula, which was apparently designed not only to settle labor disputes in wartime, but to provide a mechanical gadget for the government of mankind.
THE SLIDE RULE
When it was announced more than a year ago, this column pointed out that its progenitor was our old friend the commodity dollar, presented by the President to the London Conference in 1933 as a solution for the world's economic ills. So dies the fantasy that human government could become the creature of a slide rule.
The labor people certainly do make the point that, by means of a Presidential formula, wage earners cannot be kept unharmed by inflation. They have partly suffered from those troubles from which the rest of us have suffered much more—deteriorations in quality and deprivations of many kinds. They had to buy goods of higher price and possibly of higher quality because much of the accustomed stuff had disappeared.
AWARE OF DANGERS
Perhaps the labor people are at long last aware of the dangers into which they wandered when they permitted government bureaus, with their automatic devices, to take over much of the former functions of unionism. Perhaps they see that they must, after the war, recover from the government that freedom of action which they had won from employers over many years. Or this statistical blast may be their last drive for wage increases before the inevitable recession of employment.
Whatever its immediate purpose, the cost-of-living statement has served to blast thoroughly the intellectualized concept of mechanical substitutes for older forms of rational government. The introduction of elaborate statistical tomes into judicial arguments, which Brandeis, as lawyer and, later, as justice, did so much to encourage, has led lesser men to false conclusions and pretenses. The climax of a generation of illusions of certitude came with the President "Little Steel" formula.
Now that child is stricken in the household of labor itself.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.