Hitler Endangered
in 'Glass House'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The Balkans are like a multiple dwelling
with paper walls. Trouble in one apartment is heard all over the house, and a
match dropped here causes an exodus
there and everywhere. When Sofia was
bombed recently, riots broke out before
the houses of the Quislings in Bratislava,
three countries up the street, and it is
not surprising that Bratislava should
quake, for it is very special Nazi glass
house.
Bratislava, formerly Pressburg, is the
phony seat of the phony government of
the phony state of Slovakia. It seems
strange that the Fuehrer, with his cruel
contempt for authentic small nations
should have made such a fuss about setting up an "independent" state for the
Slovaks, for of all Eastern European peoples, the Slovaks reveal the fewest evidences of nationality.
DEAR TO HITLER
When Czechoslovakia was torn apart
a solemn treaty with Germany was signed
in Vienna which guarantees the boundaries of Slovakia for 25 years. This was
only 10 days after the incorrigible Hungarians had ripped off the southeastern
corner of Slovakia for themselves. But
Hitler acted out the dull comedy of the
birth of a nation. Doctor of Divinity Tiso
was named Prime Minister and Hlinka
President. A silly constitution was adopted, providing for a spurious republic.
The reason for all this is that Bratislava
makes very good powder. Long before
the war it was the center of the vast activities of the I. G. Farben in Southeastern Europe. The Farben people control
the Dynamite Nobel, the key company for
all Central European explosives. The
Bratislava company owns other related
enterprises in the explosive line and other
lines all over that region of Central Europe. So Bratislava is very, very dear to
Hitler.
LAWS FOR 'SAFETY'
The consternation of the exalted fathers
of this dummy republic these days is sensational. Swedish newspapers tell of peace
conditions. The Deputy Prime Minister,
having got his family away to Switzerland, tried to get himself demoted to
the safer job of Minister to Switzerland.
He failed but he may get Finland. The
Parliament has passed innumerable laws
to provide safety and security, as if such
matters can be provided by any law. The
evacuation of bureaucrats and others with
influence proceeds hysterically. Germans
moved from Berlin are moving again.
And our bombs have not really started
to fall yet. Here is one of the targets we
shall be hearing about. A dose of American-made explosives will do wonders for
I. G. Farben of Bratislava and the
wretched government that lives alongside it.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.