Mr. Wallace's
'New Crusade'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The economic arguments of such a man
as the new Henry Wallace cannot be effectively answered in economic terms. So
while the railroads are providing the economic counterblows to the Vice-President's attack upon them, it is profitable
to speculate a bit on what lies behind
these political activities of Mr. Wallace.
One thing seems sure. The President,
no doubt moved by the realistic Byrnes-
Hopkins influence, is determined to ditch
Mr. Wallace in 1944. Mr. Roosevelt would
have a hard job flying over some of the
Southern States in the 1944 election with
Mr. Wallace as his copilot. Mr. Wallace
knows this, and hence his bitter attack
upon "Southern Democrats." Insert the
name of Mr. Justice Byrnes, late of the
Supreme Court, in the Wallace speech, and
you see Mr. Wallace's meaning clearly.
WHAT IT MEANS
Consider the recent Wallace attack upon
the railroads. This is not a real attack upon railroads. It is an attack upon the
I.C.C. and, since the President has appointed or reappointed every member of
the I.C.C., it is an attack upon the administration as well.
Practically nothing that Mr. Wallace
charges could have happened except with
the agreement of the I.C.C. The additional
Wallace crack at the "western agreement" of "the railroads operating west
of the Mississippi" gives the speech a
real, Bryanesque-Populist flavor. It is our
old friend the Wall Street "plot" emerging once again. Mr. Wallace says the
committee of directors met at 40 Wall St.,
"the headquarters of its most powerful
members." W. A. Harriman, recently appointed Ambassador to Russia, was, according to the New York Times, active
in creating this movement. And Mr. Harriman's most potent administration friend
is Harry Hopkins. So Mr. Wallace is striking at Mr. Hopkins when he talks about
Wall Street. This sounds strange, considering the early socialistic associations of
Mr. Hopkins; but times have changed.
THE LEFT-WING NEW DEAL
What we really have, then, is a left-wing New Deal, whose spokesman is Mr.
Wallace, attacking what many in the inner circles of Washington regard as the
"appeasement" of business by the President. The objective of this rebellion is
either to drive the New Deal toward a
position very far to the left in 1944, or
to break away and create a radical party
whether the President runs or not. For
10 years the leftists have found it profitable to cajole the President by threatening revolt. Generally they have succeeded
because his political sense tells him that
he could not win an election as a conservative candidate.
In centering his attack upon the railroads, Mr. Wallace has hit the President
in his most conservative spot. The President's father was interested in railroads;
he was once a director of the Delaware &
Hudson. The President himself has been
more sympathetic toward the railroads
than toward any other industry.
Hence, Mr. Wallace appears as the
savior of the left, reviving all the old
war cries of Populist to stir the farmers,
wooing the C.I.O. and, by indirection,
pointing the finger of blame at those in
the administration who are lukewarm
toward the great crusade. This is a political maneuver few expected from Mr. Wallace. But a Vice-President has time on
his hands and the radicals can always
find work for idle hands.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.