Senator Taft suggests that a brawl over
reciprocal trade pacts be avoided by con-
tinuing the Trade Agreements Act, which
expires on June 12, for three years. Three
years may be too long, but a renewal of
the administration's power to make trade
treaties, perhaps until a few months
after the war, would make sense. Certain-
ly it would be politically shrewd for the
Republicans to save this issue for later
consideration, by-passing, in the middle
of the war, a fight over postwar trade
that is, at this writing, purely hypothet-
ical.
But saying that both politics and ex-
pediency suggest such a postponement
involves no admission that economics and
constitutional law are on the side of the
reciprocal trade setup. The whole trade
treaty structure needs a thorough going
over at a not-too-distant date, for never
was a fine objective marred by such
jerry built arrangements, or defended by
such specious arguments.
HIGH-FLOWN STUFF
It is undoubtedly true that many bene-
fits will flow from the gradual freeing
of international trade from certain re-
strictions. But it's absurd to claim, as
some defenders of reciprocal trade pacts
do, that all wars are caused by restric-
tions in trade or that a failure to renew
the Trade Agreements Act is tantamount
to decreeing perpetual war. When a man
invents a new kind of food he is entitled
to claim a lot for it. But it's silly to
assert that it will get the eater into
heaven.
Clearly the present reciprocal trade
machinery has flaws. It can be argued
that there is no adequate Congressional
check on this delegation of power to the
President. The wisdom of retaining the
most-favored-nation aspect of the arrange-
ments which generalizes to many other
countries benefits obtained by negotiation
with a specific country is highly debat-
able. So is the point that the Trade
Agreements Act invests a group of pretty
theoretical people, mostly in the State
Department, with a function that could,
perhaps, be better carried out by some
more economically minded agency of the
government.
WHAT THEY CAN DO
Yet when all this has been granted,
it is nevertheless plain that the principle
of the Trade Agreements Act is better
than the old tariff making, with its log-
rolling and its special privileges. It is
plain that between now and June 12 there
is no time to eliminate its defects or to
assess calmly the many economic changes
that have taken place over the past dozen
years. Neither can the further trade
changes that will arise from this war be
predicted. So the Republicans will be
on solid ground in postponing the crea-
tion of a definitive tariff policy until the
act comes up once more for revision.
As a matter of practical politics and
historic truth they can trace the origin
of reciprocity to William McKinley and
their own party. They can well pledge
their adherence to the principle promis-
ing that when the control of government
is in their hands they will recast the
machinery in such a manner as to achieve
the largest measure of flexibility and en-
larged trade while retaining for Ameri-
can labor and agriculture the protection
they need to maintain their hard-won
standards of living.
Copyright, 1945, Chlongo Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.