'Psychological
Disarmament'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Mr. Wallace's idea of "psychological"
disarmament keeps cropping up. Mrs.
Roosevelt has offered her indorsement.
"The United Nations," said the Vice-
President in one of his many recent in-
spirational talks, "must back up military
disarmament with psychological disarma-
ment—supervision, or at least inspection,
of the school systems of Germany and
Japan, to undo so far as possible the dia-
bolical work of Hitler and the Japanese
war lords in poisoning the minds of the
young." The trouble is that if we are to
participate in an international program
of education, we shall have to begin with
one of our own.
At the outset, we come smack up
against the basic American principle that
we have no national educational credo.
The most precious heritage we enjoy is
freedom in such matters—freedom from
nationally regimented education. Authority
over education remains dispersed among
States, local governments and thousands
of private organizations. This dispersal
is what makes the sum total rich. It is
what keeps it free.
WHAT AN OFFERING!
But even though Mr. Wallace and Mrs.
Roosevelt could not by any stretch of
the imagination impose a body of educa-
tional doctrine upon the multiple and free
systems of our own country, let's assume
that they can formulate one to carry, as
America's contribution, to an international
psychological conference. Then the fun
would really begin. For they'll have to
sit around a table with Messrs. Churchill,
Stalin and Chiang Kai-shek to draw up
a truly international program.
There'd be some likenesses between
the Wallace-Roosevelt doctrines and Mr.
Churchill's, of course. The Stalin text,
however, would present elements of ap-
palling novelty. And for sheer age, variety
and richness, Generalissimo Chiang's of-
fering would have it over all the others.
He would offer the comforts of three
great religions and innumerable sects,
hundreds of governmental and economic
ideas, and endless numbers of principles
of individual and family behavior.
In deference to China, naturally, Mr.
Wallace and Mrs. Roosevelt would have
to accept for the international textbook
a good many doctrines that millions of
American dollars and thousands of zealous
American missionaries have toiled
over a generation to replace with Chris-
tian culture. We should then be in the
position of laboring in Japan to inculcate
what we tried to eradicate in China.
SOME PROBLEMS
Suppose, however, the international
psychological conference finally agrees on
what should or should not be taught in
German and Japanese schools. That's assuming,
needless to say, that such knotty
problems as what sort of history of the
past century should be taught in United
Nations schools have been amicably settled.
Mr. Wallace says there should be
"supervision," or at least "inspection," of
the schools of Germany and Japan. "Super-
vision" of education has pretty clear im-
plications in this country. It means hiring
and firing teachers, making educa-
tional budgets and prescribing courses of
study. Would we want to participate in
an international commission to supervise
these schools in Italy and Germany that
are supported by religious bodies? Could
religion be free if religious education
were supervised?
But if "supervision" is going to present
difficulties, what of "inspection"? The
State of Tennessee had quite a job "in-
specting" the teaching of evolution some
years back. There are many dumb teach-
ers, but no teacher ever lived who could
not outwit an inspector. Outwitting in-
spectors is the oldest and best developed
of all the arts of pedagogy.
Mr. Wallace must know—should know
—that while you can regiment the trade
and prevent the armament of a con-
quered country, you cannot control its
psychology by force. Perhaps if we win
the war, disarm Japan and Germany, free
their people of the criminal
thugs and hoodlums who seized their
governments and maintain some real polic-
ing for a generation, psychological prob-
lems, with an interchange of knowledge
and ideas, will adjust themselves.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.