Desperate Nazis
Try a Gamble
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It begins to look as if the Turks are so
peace loving that they hesitate to join
the peace-loving nations against Germany.
But appearances are deceiving.
The Turks are not essentially peace
loving, as everyone knows, but they have
shrewd and resourceful leaders who are
first and last for Turkey and theirs has
been a profitable neutrality. No doubt
there are great advantages in store for
Turkey if she joins the war before it
close. It has been assumed that her en-
trance was only a matter of timing
Churchill is a man of tenacious principles
and his voluminous writings after the
last war make clear his belief that Turkey
is the key to a quick defeat of Germany.
His visit to Turkey in April was in line
with that conviction. But apparently he
did not move the Turkish government.
We may well imagine that Eden dangled
rich advantages before the Turkish representatives
in his recent conference with
them at Cairo. But Turkey still hesitates,
which makes clear that powerful forces
are working on the other side.

EVIDENCE APPARENT
Some evidence of those forces is contained
in the news from the Aegean islands
and Lebanon. With the pressure
upon Germany from all sides, we may
be certain that unless a good deal was at
stake she would not attack those islands
in such force. Her presence there constitutes
a threat to Turkey and points south.
South of Turkey, north of Palestine and
west of Syria is historic Lebanon. It was
mandated to France along with Syria
after the last war. After the occupation
of Syria by the British in this war, the
Lebanese and Syrians were allowed to
conduct a modified self-government. This
government, supposedly sympathetic to
the de Gaulle people, now seems to be
under severe Allied suspicion. All these
facts suggest not merely a military move
by Germany to forestall an invasion of
the Balkans from the east, but a serious
political offensive by Germany designed to
incite the Arabs against the United Nations.

NAZI GOLD
The long propaganda campaign by Hitler
among the Arabs is well known. In
that campaign—it was carefully explained
that anti-Semitic references in "Mein
Kampf" were directed at the Jewish people,
not the Arabs. In the new campaign
the target is supposed to be narrowed
still more exactly. It is anti-Zion. And to
judge by the situation in Lebanon, words
have been supplemented by plenty of
German gold, skillfully distributed by von
Papen from Turkey.
This new German offensive is of little
military significance. Its objective is to
pose a threat to the Turks by possession
of the islands close to them, to offer the
German people an offset to the bad news
elsewhere by announcing the capture of
islands famous in history and well known
to Germans; and to poison the minds of
the Arabs against the United Nations by
picturing this as a war for Zionism.
The maneuver is a move characteristic
of a desperate and defeated regime. It can-
not succeed, for no political moves by
the Nazis now can stop the inevitable
military decision.
Copyright, 1943, (Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.