The Prospects
for Republicans
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Alf M. Landon's visit to Washington
and New York has brought Republican
politics to the first authentic boll in a
long time. From here on, the race for
the nomination will be something to
watch.
Mr. Landon reports, as a result of innumerable
contacts and conferences, two
clear conclusions. First, the anti-New Deal
tide is mounting in strength and it indicates
an excellent chance to elect a Republican
in 1944. This, some may say, is partisan
pep-inspiring propaganda. But the elections
a month ago, the hy-elections since, and
many independent tests all bear out Landon's
optimism. For better or worse, the prospects
of a fourth term never looked poorer. Meantime,
the violent Senatorial quarrel between Southern
Democrats Byrd and Bailey on the one side and
New Deal Democrat Guffey on the other was
not just a family tiff. It was a plain threat by
the Southerners to bolt the party.
DEWEY AND WILLKIE
The second Landon conclusion points to the
rapidly widening gap between the popularity
of Gov. Dewey and that of Wendell Willkie.
In April, Landon points out, Dewey was considerably
ahead of Willkie both among organization
Republicans and among the rank and file. Now,
he says, the margin is much greater. The phenomenal
victory of Dewey's candidate for Lieutenant
Governor last month has apparently done more
for Dewey than all of Willkie's speeches and
activities have done for him. Politicians have
deep superstitions about the actual vote-getting
capacities of leaders. The fact that Dewey has,
in successive tests, shown the capacity to get
big majorities in New York speaks louder to
them than a million speeches about votes to
come. This conviction that Dewey could get
actual votes in 1944 may well become so strong
that the reluctant New York Governor may not
be able to resist by convention time. Landon,
however, has made it clear that Bricker, Warren
or some other Republican may come to the
front in the months ahead.
The Landon-Willkie debate over the Moscow
declaration opens a subject which may have
important and not very pleasant political aspects.
Mr. Landon said that Republicans should avoid
commitment to the Moscow statement because
it is too hazy. Mr. Willkie replied that he would
not want to be the candidate of a Republican
party which felt that way.
THE FOREIGN-BORN VOTE
To this observer of the fracas, it seems that
the less Republicans raise the issue of the small
nations of Europe and how they come out under
the Moscow declaration, the better all around.
Great numbers of foreign-born voters in great
American cities will, regrettably, vote for or
against Mr. Roosevelt on the basis of how their
native countries fare in the peace arrangements.
This is not an American way of voting, and it
is to be soundly condemned. Any attempt to
exploit Old World sympathies by Republicans
or Democrats should be avoided; in fact, such
appeals may be deadly boomerangs. Perhaps
the best way for both parties to regard the
Moscow declaration is that it is a good beginning.
In fairness to Mr. Landon, it should be added
that he said exactly this to the House freshmen.
He said "...The Moscow arrangement is only
a mere beginning, although a good beginning."
It may be that this is where political discussion
in this country should leave the subject until the
war is over.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.