The Fittest
Do Not Survive
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Informed people now know enough
about how the lines are being tightened
in Washington to conclude that William
M. Jeffers, one of the ablest men in the
public service, can scarcely fail to remove
himself from the war effort. One order
already issued and another, which may
appear shortly, are almost certain to
make him pull up his stakes and go home.
Eight months ago, the Baruch report
told the President how to speed up rubber
production. The President then called
on Mr. Jeffers to carry out the terms of
the Baruch report. Jeffers was to get
the plants built, to make the rubber prescribed
in the Baruch report and to decide how much
rubber civilians would get. He was to operate
under Mr. Nelson, but to have a free hand.
Jeffers, who knows how to get things done, set to
with a will. He made unbelievable progress.
THE TUG OF WAR
Then came the tug of war between
rubber, gas and ships for materials, and
instead of a decision on this bottleneck
by the high command, the matter went
to the public in the form of an ugly
brawl in which no outsider could judge
the merits of the contenders.
Now Mr. Nelson issues an order which,
"technically," to use Mr. Nelson's word,
gives Arthur D. Whiteside authority to
override Mr. Jeffers in allocating rubber
for various purposes. Mr. Nelson explains
that if Mr. Whiteside disagrees with Mr.
Jeffers, both men can take the matter up
with him. But actually this means that
Mr. Nelson has placed a new authority
between himself and Mr. Jeffers and that
Mr. Whiteside will actually influence the
program.
When, some time ago, Mr. Nelson
sought to place Mr. Wilson between himself
and the forceful Mr. Jeffers, the latter
objected, and carried his point. The
curious fact about the new Whiteside
order is that Mr. Jeffers was apparently
not consulted about it, but heard of it
through the press. He could only say
when questioned, that he "hadn't examined
it."
JEFFERS TO DISAPPEAR
But the whole story is not yet in the
record, it appears. A further restriction
on Mr. Jeffers, it is said, will appear in
the form of an order that when Mr. Jeffers
seeks more money from the R.F.C.
for further development of his rubber
plants, he will have to go through Mr.
Wilson to get to Mr. Jones.
The net of it all will no doubt be the
disappearance of Mr. Jeffers from the
Washington scene. He is not the man to
take responsibility for a job which red
tape and entangling orders make impossible.
And when he goes, one more competent,
unselfish public servant will be
following in the wake of many others.
Under this system the unfit survive.
The bitter harvest of these days springs
from the fact that way back in 1939 and
1940, war machinery was set up on un-
workable principles of administration. As
time has gone on these bad principles
became incrusted in the system. Able
and competent men will find it harder
to do a job. And those who ultimately
pay the penalty are all of us.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.