Real Justice
Arouses Pride
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
No American who views the Supreme
Court reversal of the conviction of George
Sylvester Viereck against the background
of the Nazis' flamboyant barbarism at
Kharkov can fail either to be proud of our
system of government or to be stirred to
fight the harder and sacrifice the more for
the country in which it flourishes. For
last Monday's decision of the court made
clear, as few acts of government have
done these many months, the nature of
what we are fighting to save.
To be profoundly moved by the Viereck
decision implies no lack of aversion to
Viereck and his acts. The point is that
Chief Justice Stone, speaking for a 5-2
majority of the court, reminded us that
"we can fight and die, if need be, for republican institutions without suspending
them here at home.
ENDURING JUSTICE
The court decided the Viereck case on
a specific question of law. It ruled that
Viereck was not compelled to disclose
anything that he has done in his own, as
distinguished from his acts as an "agent"
of a foreign principal. But in handing
down the decision, the Chief Justice also
specifically directed attention "to conduct
of the prosecuting attorney," which, he
said, "we think prejudiced petitioner's
right to a fair trial, and which
might well have placed the judgment of
conviction in jeopardy."
Here is a question not of technical law,
but of broad and enduring justice, and
here is a solemn reminder that the American courts must be just even to those of
whom Americans thoroughly disapprove.
The Chief Justice observed that the
prosecutor "in his closing remarks to the
jury
indulged in an appeal wholly
irrelevant to any facts or issues in the
case, the purpose and effect of which could
only have been to arouse passion and
prejudice
at a time when passion
and prejudice are heightened by emotions
stirred by our participation in a great war,
we do not doubt that these remarks addressed to the jury were highly prejudicial and that they were offensive to the
dignity and good order with which all proceedings in court should be conducted."
And then, sharply, he added a quotation
from an opinion written years ago by
Justice Sutherland: "The United States
Attorney
may prosecute with
earnestness
but, while he may
strike hard blows, he is not at liberty to
strike foul ones."
VAST RESPONSIBILITY
So the Supreme Court has bluntly reminded us all that a vast responsibility
rests upon a free government even in war.
Cold and intelligent determination to win
is not inconsistent with what Wilson once
described as an obligation to observe,
"with proud punctilio," while we fight,
"the principles of right and fair play we
profess to be fighting for."
Those who have seen the home front in
two wars have properly been fearful lest
we lose respect for law in our eagerness
to win. There has been much to feed
such fears. In too many instances our
officialdom has shown a tendency to over-
reach law and justice. In the Viereck decision, the Chief Justice is warning far
more than a few overzealous prosecutors.
He is warning all Americans—agents of
government as well as the rest of us—
that war offers no excuse for lawlessness.
We can win this war without adopting
the methods of our enemies.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.