Fourth-Term
'Line' Adopted

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

News has a way of crossing party
lines, and political news moves like quick-
silver. A lot of what you hear isn't so, of
course, but items picked up here and
there, particularly at the Governor's Con-
ference in Columbus, make it possible
to piece together and predict fairly ac-
curately the White House plans for the
fourth-term campaign next year.
The campaign is buzzing, all right. The
little group of intimates, which, under a
personal government like ours now is,
takes the place of traditional forms of
authority, is thinking and talking and
sending out lines of communication
through the country. The President has
his moments of volubility, too. Sometimes
he even talks to people outside the fold.
And they tell stories.
>WATCH THESE THINGS!
The plan goes something like this:
Every effort will be made to get the
public to think of the fourth-term candi-
date not as President but as Commander-
in-Chief. Watch the way the title is used
in statements, in proclamations and in
speeches. Remember, those administra-
tion boys are great believers in seman-
tics, which is New Dealese for the art
or science of picking words coated with
the right kind of luscious chocolate icing.
Second, Congress is to be smeared in
every possible manner. The blame for
inflation, for food shortages, for ration-
ing snarls and for opposition to labor
will be put on the doorstep of Congress.
Note the President's crack at Congress
in his letter to Chester Davis. Watch
the writings of journalists who are
favored by the White House. The echo
is already coming back from foreign
papers like the Manchester Guardian.
Also, the opposition press is to be and
is, in fact, already being energetically
smeared.
Third, the heart-attack method is being
industriously employed. It takes the form
of spreading pessimism among those who
ordinarily would vote for a political
change. When you hear, "You can't beat
him with a war on"-"The war will last
a long time"-"Where is the man to beat
him?" and "The Republicans are hope-
lessly divided"—bear this in mind: these
statements and questions come straight
from the New Deal stock pile.
THE BIG PROMISE
Fourth, the promise of "full employ-
ment" will be vociferous. All past promises,
kept and unkept, will be muted by that
new promise. Watch for the details as
time goes on. Government-built plants
will be used for the employment and
training of returned soldiers. New govern-
ment enterprises will be started. And, be-
lieve it or not, that old scheme, beloved
of Louis Howe 10 years ago, sponsored
by Ickes and never forgotten by the
President—the transcontinental highway
dream—will reappear. Only, in the old
days around the White House it used
to be one highway east and west, and
two north and south. The dream has
grown these 10 years. Now it is three
highways east and west, and four north
and south.
The old gag about how these highways
will be self-liquidating will be kept alive
and kicking. There will be condemnations
of land along these highways and hot-
dog—or should we say frankfurter?—
stands planned to pay the Treasury back.
In the opiate fumes of such dreams the
memories of bungling administration will
be forgotten. High on the continental
highway gridiron will be the aromatic
answer to all doubts. Once more will the
great provider sweep the hungry States.
The months will amply prove that this
is not written in a playful mood. If you
doubt that, wait and see.

Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.