On the Proper
Use of Subsidies
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When, in June of last year, the Senate
kicked over the traces and refused to ac-
cept the Henderson-proposed subsidies,
the signs clearly indicated that the admin-
istration would be compelled to try and
try again, if necessary, to get Congress
to approve them. It is now in process of
doing just that, for which it cannot alto-
gether be blamed. But when it tries to
sugar-coat the bitter dose by handing us
the old malarkey about "how Canada and
England did it" we have a right to call it
for what it is.
Canada and England frankly accepted
price ceilings early. They were also frank
enough to say—early—that there were
costs they could not control.
A year ago, J. L. Ilsey, Minister of
Finance, said in the Canadian Parliament:
"From the beginning of our price stabiliza-
tion policy it has been foreseen and un-
derstood that some unusual methods, such
as subsidies or their equivalent, would be
necessary to meet a number of the special
problems that would arise in carrying out
the price ceiling policy."
REAL STRENGTH
He said then that the British paid out
£125,000,000 in subsidies in 1941. But he
added this frank admission: "We can con-
trol and hold down most of the costs which
enter into prices of Canadian goods and
services, but we cannot control them all."
The essence and the strength of Canadi-
an subsidies, and the British, too, for that
matter, has been their application to iso-
lated situations.
The original Canadian and American
subsidies were on a few imports, mainly.
Canada applied them to some special sit-
uations like milk, and used them to lighten
the difficulties of moving gasoline, coal and
oil after the submarines had reached our
coast. Canada later extended them, for
obvious reasons, to tea, coffee and oranges.
Of course, the United States has also
used subsidies in isolated situations. These
have to do chiefly with imported articles.
We have spent some $600,000,000 for these
limited and wholly justifiable purposes.
But the current proposal to use subsi-
dies to "roll back" prices cannot be de-
fended by citing Canada or England. For
the proposal involves a great and mounting
expenditure not merely to cover situa-
tions which cannot be controlled in future—
—and there are such—but also to repair
damage caused by an unforgivable lack of
foresight in the past.
ONLY A POSTPONEMENT?
That the price of meat was not properly
controlled from the first, Mr. Brown has
already admitted. But instead of doing
something basic about the distribution and
production cost, he determines first to hold
it where it is by subsidies, and, even be-
yond that, to use subsidies to restore the
former retail price. That this dangerous
"out," if permitted now, will spread over
a very wide list of goods is clear. It will
end up in the use of subsidies not alone
to relieve isolated situations, but in our
subsidizing whole classes of producers.
Not over a third of the money required
would come from taxes. The rest would
come from bonds sold to the banks. The
materials of inflation would be increased,
even if the actuality of inflation appeared
to be checked. The potential of inflation
at a later date would be raised once again.
The real justification of subsidies lies in
the fact that they sometimes provide the
time needed to make the adjustments
which will make them unnecessary, either
by extending market enforcement or by
reducing consumption through rationing
or by finding domestic substitutes for im-
ports. Without these achievements, sub-
sidies become only a postponement of evil
days.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate.
The Modern Miracle
BY EMMA J. C. DAVIS
Aladdin rubbed his greasy lamp and a
Genie came smoking out to do his bidding.
Me—a "happy thought" slaps me in the
face: I grab it (as Rick grabbed the gull; )
impale it with my pen; pin it down upon
a scrap of paper and drop it, still alive
and kicking, in my corner mail box. That's
absolutely all. Next morning (if and that's
a big "if") it has passed the censor, it has
been set up and printed; has commanded
the service of a free and mighty press
and has given me, insignificant citizen,
the eye and ear of a reading and listening
world!
Aladdin was a piker!
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.