Looking for Causes of Trouble
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
With the indignation of Lou Maxon
most people will sympathize. But when,
In resigning from the O.P.A., he laid the
blame on professors, theorists and "slide-
rule men," he was talking about symp-
toms, not causes. After we grant that the
O.P.A., like other agencies, has been over-
loaded with impractical people, we still
leave unanswered the question of why an
agency with some impractical and incom-
petent people cannot still make policies
and command the carrying out of policies.
For Mr. Maxon was well toward the top of
O.P.A. and he expressed no anger toward
those at the top.
The real point is that the professors
and theorists of whom he speaks appar-
ently look to other sources for their au-
thority than to the visible heads of their
departments. They are at once part of a
specific agency and also part of a vast,
indefinite group that overrides depart-
mental lines and actually makes policy in
Washington. Time was when administra-
tive lines of authority ran vertically. But
under the New Deal, they also run hori-
zontally. A brotherhood of theoretical
policy makers runs through all depart-
ments and includes White House favorites
who are really in no department. Some
have no official job at all. And all meddle
in policy making and politics.
Some years ago this writer was told
by a young man, who had secured jobs
for many of his friends, that because the
President or Congress or someone was
adopting a policy he didn't like, all of his
friends were considering resigning in pro-
test. They didn't, of course, and they
multiplied with the years. But they clear-
ly felt that they were there not to per-
form prosaic administrative tasks but to
influence policy.
In this administration a tangle of groups
of policy makers floats between the nomi-
nal Cabinet and the President. It roots in
the conception of the Presidency as a
personal government. When power be-
comes concentrated in a person, the growth
of extralegal authorities sets in, the Exec-
utive acquires his private administrators
and his private philosophers. These official
and unofficial groups form a series of mys-
tic shrines in what seems to be an end-
lessly chambering nautilus.
If these chambers of influence were clear-
ly consequential they might be penetrated
by Congressional inquiry, but they extend
in all sorts of capricious directions through
back corridors, orifices and inner sancta.
Under such a situation, administration is
like the Mammoth Cave or the Carlsbad
Caverns.
Edmund Burke described that sort of
thing in 1770 in his "Thoughts on the
Cause of Our Present Discontents." His
complaint was the manner in which the
King short-circuited the responsible gov-
ernment through personal servitors. He
spoke of the co-existence of two govern-
ments: the "external Cabinet" and the "in-
terior Cabinet." In the face of this, Par-
liament was baffled. It found its consti-
tutional authority circumvented at every
point.
In our situation Congress finds itself
equally baffled. Congressmen try to per-
sonalize their irritations by denouncing
the policy makers as professors. The real
trouble rests not with the sad fate that
made them professors but with the capri-
cious governmental system that makes
them policy makers. Their defect is, as
Burke said, that "they have no connec-
tion with the sentiments and opinions of
the people." And they cannot have such
a connection because their tenure of au-
thority depends not upon popular support
but private favor. Mr. Maxon is only
one long succession of businessmen
who have fallen victim to a system which
tolerates an "interior Cabinet." And that
situation cannot be cured by eliminating
a few theorists.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.