Speech by Hull
Given Praise

BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The critics of Secretary Hull learned
on Sunday night that he is no reed
shaken by the wind. To examine with
care his interpretation of American for
eign policy is to feel the assurance that
our external affairs are being conducted
in the light of good traditions.
The critics will not be satisfied, of
course. One of them has already said
that Mr. Hull's speech merely rattled the
bones of international law. This is like
saying that Chief Justice Stone is rattling
the bones of the Constitution. The bones
of international law are not dead. To im
ply that they are is to say that all that
men of good will and intelligence have
created in the international relations of
3000 years vanishes at the first whiff of
powder.

MAIN AIM CITED
Wars do not mark the failure of inter-
national law; they merely indicate that
there is a vast area of international rela-
tions which lies beyond the scope of in-
ternational law. That area, Mr. Hull says,
is being explored and, in building post-
war arrangements, will be explored fur-
ther in a nonpartisan, conciliatory spirit.
It is clear that Mr. Hull's main purpose
in his speech was to indicate that our di-
plomacy has labored to save lives in this
war and to make easier the thrusts of
military force. In wartime that is what
a State Department is for. If it should
work to make Europe over permanently,
while war is still raging, the war itself
might ultimately be very much more cost-
ly in lives and in time. If, for example,
we seek to precipitate revolutions when
we still have a chance to eliminate an
enemy wholesale, we add to the agonies
of both victor and vanquished. Mr. Hull
makes the case—and the facts have amply
proved his case—that in Spain, in Vichy
and in North Africa our diplomacy served
well as a primary aid to military power.

CONDUCT PRAISED
In acting as such, Mr. Hull and his de-
partment have relied upon a tradition of
international law which his critics would
scrap whenever they dislike the internal
affairs of another country—the traditional
principle of recognition. That principle
was discarded by Wilson in 1913, in the
Mexican affair. It was set aside in our
relations with Russia for 15 years, but
it is still the only permanently workable
policy under which international affairs
can proceed.
With reference to Mr. Hull's attitude to-
ward Russia, this writer has some basis
for a judgment, for he served in the de-
partment during the months before the
recognition of Russia in 1933. There was
never any indication of prejudice toward
Russia on Mr. Hull's part then, when, if
ever, it was likely to manifest itself. Nor
have events since that time revealed any
such bias. To suggest that such a bias
exists is to impair relations with Russia,
which are now a matter of life or death.
There are many postwar questions
about which there may be honest disagree-
ment with Mr. Hull. But the country is
fortunate in having had, since we entered
the war, so steady a hand as his in the
State Department.
Copyright, 1941, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate

War Wife...
BY JASON HERRON
Anxiety must shadow your long stride,
And safety still be stranger to the bed
You share. Love—loneliness will stand
beside
Me twisting long thin fingers, while my
head
Is lost in the oppression of vague fears.
Alert in vain, my pulsing heart will so
mix with its blood the bitter salt of tears
That hours must seem unending. This
I know.
Yet, should I choose a pathway safe—se-
cure
From shuddering alarms? Where always
bright
As in my childhood, the days move in sure,
Unsullied peace, would my soul grow
upright?
Rather the strange dark wilderness of
your
Intrepid heart—with torches in the
night!
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.