People Show
a Lot of Sense
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Despite the scolding which they have
frequently received from high quarters
since Pearl Harbor, the American peo-
ple in the mass have shown more eco-
nomic sense than their rulers anticipated.
In fact, their intelligence has seemed to
exceed that of the people who have been
lecturing them. An examination of that
most gruesome of all of Leon Hender-
son's bogeymen, the "Inflationary gap,"
proves it.
Talk about the gap used to be the cen-
ter of Henderson's circuses of charts and
statistics before Congressional commit-
tees and the climax of all his speeches.
It was described as the amount of money
available for spending beyond the amount
of goods available for buying. That the
ferocity of this animal has not justified
its advance billing, however, is the re-
sult of two major economic miscalcula-
tions by the administration. First, the
American people have been more saving
than the administration thought they
would be. Second, they have produced
more goods than the President or Mr.
Henderson thought they would.
TREMENDOUS SAVINGS
This is not to say that there is no such
animal as the "inflationary gap." But it
begins to look now as if the nature and
size of the beast had been grossly ex-
aggerated. Some weeks ago this column
pointed out that the administration had
heavily underestimated our capacity for
civilian production. It is now clear that
with due allowances for change in the
value of money we produced nearly 50
per cent more civilian goods in 1942 than
the administration anticipated. Civilian
production in 1943 may, according to pres-
ent indications, run to a figure well above
$90,000,000,000. That, at the time of Pearl
Harbor, was only a little less than what
was estimated for both war and civilian
production in 1912. So, a sizable slice
comes off one side of the gap, since the
more goods there are the less danger of
inflated prices.
On the other side, the performance of
the American people has been no less re-
markable. They have shown, despite
ten years of preachments by New Deal
economists to the effect that thrift is an
antisocial habit, that they still prefer
Ben Franklin to Stuart Chase. Accord-
ing to Department of Commerce figures,
they saved over $36,000,000,000 in 1942—
an amount equal to one-third of what
the administration estimated would be
the national income and one-quarter of
what the national income turned out to
be. Of this $36,000,000,000 in savings,
$22,000,000,000 were by individuals and
$14,000,000,000 by corporations; $21,000,-
000,000 were in government securities.
A HOPEFUL POSSIBILITY
This tremendous volume of savings is
a surprise to every economist who said,
two years ago, that "natural" instincts
for self-preservation would drive money
into goods and out of savings. The argu-
ment was made that, whereas if every-
body saved there would be no inflation,
there was an inevitable tendency on the
part of a few to start a panic of buying
which would destroy those who did what
they should, which was to save. Events
have not justified those fears.
The fact is that savings at the end of
this war will be four times greater than
at the end of the first World War.
But this, it is said, only defers and
makes more terrible the evil day. That
may be true, for these savings are mostly
potential buying power. Against that
danger there are two favorable possibili-
ties, which, on the basis of two years' ex-
perience, are better than possibilities.
The one is that America's capacity to
produce civilian goods will again astound
all observers and that the transition from
war to peace will proceed faster than the
government anticipates. The other is
that Americans will, to a greater extent
than most believe, hold their savings.
It is an interesting fact that when Eng-
land converted her loans in 1931 she
found that bonds were brought in that
had helped pay for the Napoleonic wars.
The thrifty holders of these bonds never
heard of an inflationary gap during the
hundred years they and their predeces-
sors had been helping to close one. It is to
be hoped that a great many Americans
will enjoy the same absence of concern
for the higher economics.
If our leaders of opinion would talk a
little more in favor of such thrift and a
little less of schemes for full employment
of government borrowing, the dangers of
postwar inflation would be vastly less.
Copyright, 1943. Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.