LOS ANGELES.—Anyone who has any
remaining doubts about the inability of
a centralized bureaucracy to run this
big country should examine at firsthand
the conditions and opinions that prevail
these days in Southern California. The
State is utterly and fiercely determined
to win the war. But the feeling is general
that Washington is doing a lot of things
about the domestic economy that may well
lengthen it and the people here are sore
clean through.
Take meat for example. Quotas were
fixed by Washington on the basis of 1941
consumer demand. The population of
Southern California has since grown by
some six-figure amount. There are mil-
lions of dollars more in pay envelopes.
Argument as to whether the quota is
wrong or distribution is faulty has finally
resulted in the inevitable appointment of
an advisory committee by the O.P.A. But
people cannot eat committees set up from
Washington. They are disgruntled. Dairy-
men are denouncing the O.P.A. Democratic
members of the State Legislature are
speaking plainly in behalf of these milk
producers. One of them said, "We are
stepchildren, forgotten by the boys in
the East. Unless the Democrats do something
about the O.P.A., every one of them
will be out the next election."
THE SAME THEME
This theme can be heard everywhere.
In endless variations. The painful congestion of railroads and electric lines in
an area in which men and women must
travel great distances between home and
work and the visible evidence of much
oil and gasoline make a nation-wide uniform system of gasoline rationing another
source of irritation. So is talk of a manpower law.
The Byrnes speech did nothing to decrease that. It was, as one person said
here, an effort to provide intelligible bylaws to an unintelligible constitution. It
may be added that the Byrnes speech
revealed the strength as well as the weakness that was always apparent in Mr.
Byrnes' career as a Senator. His essential function was to accept policies determined in advance and to make people
support those policies despite the doubts
they had as to their wisdom.
In the present instance, he is trying
to gloss over the administration's fundamentally inflationary policies by claiming
that the spirit of sacrifice can prevent
those policies from injuring our economy.
Mr. Byrnes tried very hard to prove that
what is in substance an inflationary wage
rise can be balanced by more production,
but he failed to point out that the production that comes from the additional
work is not something that workers can
buy for their own use. He failed to point
out that the enlarged pay envelopes will
coincide with a steadily shrinking supply
of consumer goods.
CALIFORNIANS UNEASY
He failed to convince reasonable people
that the administration is really bent on
preventing inflation because the methods
he used to argue were legalistic and political, in the sense that only the best side
of the case was placed in evidence. All
the patience, charm and skill of Mr.
Byrnes cannot stop the march of actual
figures and facts.
Californians, who are acutely aware of
the dangers of inflation and of the need
for anticipating the end of the war by
wise economic policies, have not been reassured. They are the more uneasy because no State has thrown its industrial
resources more completely into the war
effort. California is willing to meet the
postwar readjustment of the aircraft and
shipbuilding industries, but it must have
some fixed and safe Washington policies
to depend upon.
It is, it believes, inadequately represented in the higher ranges of the administration. It has no representatives
in the Cabinet or among the big war
agency heads. And, while the State has
had differences in politics with Herbert
Hoover, it resents seeing him, with his
unexampled experiences in meeting precisely the problems that are so critically
now, conspicuously ignored by the administration. California does not propose
to be the tail to any kite, economic, political or social.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.