Miner 'Fining'
Questioned
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The very fact that it will take a long
while to determine whether Mr. Ickes
can legally collect fines from miners
makes it hard to see why he made the at-
tempt. The imposition of a $2,250,000 fine
opens a direct channel to serious constitu-
tional questions. That puts the affair on
the long road to the Supreme Court.
The Ickes assumption seems to be that
the contracts which were to expire on
March 31 continue in effect, and will con-
tinue until June 20; that those contracts
contained the provision for a fine and that
the men who went on strike are liable.
Lewis denies that contention utterly and
claims that no agreement exists.
FACTS OF THE CASE
To get at the issue, let us look at some
facts. The Appalachian agreement, or
contract, was to expire March 31. That
contract had no provision, such as is often
the case, that the contract would continue
in case negotiations were not completed.
It provided only that negotiations were to
begin on March 14. They did, and when
they reached no agreement on March 22,
the President wired the negotiators to con-
tinue their talks, if necessary, beyond the
date of expiration. They continued to ne-
gotiate and the miners continued to work,
and on April 21, the President wired
again. On May 1, the President seized the
mines. Apparently, the legal claim is
made the N.W.L.B. and the President
could extend the agreement.
A top-flight lawyer, thoroughly familiar
with these contracts and not on the labor
side, expressed to this writer the private
opinion that the contracts expired on
March 31, and that no legal right exists to
impose the fine. He says that none of the
telegrams, orders, seizures or resumptions
of work revived the contracts.
Ultimately, the whole affair will go to
the courts. And its day in court will be a
long, long day—with plenty of overtime.
But there is enough constitutional fire un-
der this smoke, and enough material for a
Lewis appeal to the public, to confuse the
public and bring thousands to the belief
that Lewis is right.
SPEED ESSENTIAL
Looking at it from the outside, it ap-
pears that the government, in its effort to
play the strong man, has essayed a feat of
strength that will take a long time to
show results. But the value of a govern-
ment's public demonstration of strength
is determined by the time it takes to com-
plete the maneuver. Every statesman, from
Caesar to Roosevelt, has known that. If
Washington's trip across the Deleware had
been, instead, a week-end cruise to Ber-
muda, it would have been no shot in the
arm for the faltering revolution. Govern-
ments must be not only strong, but quick.
Mr. Ickes has missed that point com-
pletely.
Meanwhile, the negotiations turn in
Lewis' favor. Good inside judges of such
things think the industry will sign up
with Lewis. It has always done so before,
after a few operators have broken the
ranks.
Before the fines were imposed, Mr.
Ickes was winning wide approbation for
his single-minded concentration on getting
out coal at the expense of everything else.
He was not in the heat of the controversy.
But he has suddenly projected himself in-
to the middle of it, with results that no
one can predict.
Copyright, 1913, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.