Why Did Nazis
Slay Munk?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In the midst of current discussion of Polish and Russian
problems, it may be well to remind ourselves once more of the
exact reason why American
blood is being shed on the continent of Europe. That reason
is the presence there of the still
undefeated Nazi system. And
one of the best evidences of its
danger comes in the news of the
murder of Kaj Munk in Denmark.
Kaj Munk was the best loved
and most important Danish poet
of our time. He was also a dramatist with a first-rate international
reputation. He lived in
deep simplicity as a Protestant
clergyman on the parish farm in
the little town of Federsoe in
Denmark.
ANONYMOUS MURDER
To this simple home there
came last week four men, who
spoke with an unmistakable
German accent. Munk was not
permitted to take leave of his
wife and five children. His
body was found 40 miles away.
He had been shot through the
head. The Nazis permitted
nothing to be printed in Denmark about the matter beyond
the bare fact of his death. The
identity of the murderers sinks
into the anonymous slime of
Nazidom.
Nothing could show more
clearly how foreign is the Nazi
machine to the Germanic culture
of which Hitler and Goebbels
prate. Here was a great representative of Germanic genius of
the Scandinavian Nordic language and mentality. He was
murdered because of his Christian and liberty-loving attitude
about the myth of a "master
race." In his best-known drama,
"The Melting Pot," he preached
about Jewish-Christian marriages. Although this play was
written before the Nuremberg
laws, Hitler seems to have taken
it as a deliberate attack upon
him. Another play, "The Idealist," might also have upset Hitler's
assurance. It dealt with
King Herod and the early Christians.
A more direct reason for Nazi
hatred may have been Munk's
sermons and poems demanding
liberty of conscience.
WHY THIS CRIME?
Why was this crime committed now? Surely there could
be no fear that this simple man
could have helped an invasion.
This murder is an attempt to
destroy something of the very
spirit of the Germanic race behind the pseudo glorification of
which it is no longer safe for
Nazis to hide and upon which it
is apparently no longer safe for
them to depend. So they kill
those in whom the spirit really
lived. It is this desperate gang
in growing isolation within Germany itself, that we are fighting.
That needs emphasis now
as never before.
The Germans themselves may
well remember this murder as
a warning against future Hitlers. For the "grass soon grows
over a battlefield but never over
a scaffold."
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal
of Commerce
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.