A New Threat
to the Press
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The reported Bankhead proposal to subsidize weekly newspapers with government "advertising" brings to light on a national scale an old and discredited local political practice. But more significant, it underlines once more the persistent effort of some New Dealers in and out of office to smear the publishing business by the claim that advertising is, in effect, a purchase of influence.
Principle melts fast when the wolf sniffs at the door, and no one is disposed to condemn too fiercely the many weekly papers whose wartime plight is so acute that their snapping at any offer of succor is understandable. It is a matter of life or death for them. But what the government does to subvert a free press is something else again, and if Senator Bankhead presses his subsidy proposition, he may expect the stiffest kind of opposition a strong and militant press ever put up.
PLENTY OF RASCALITY
The gentle art of playing local and State politics with official advertising is as old as the nation itself. Obviously, the giving of government advertising is not per se scandalous, but it did open a door through which plenty of rascality has certainly passed. In recent years, the years of the "new moral climate," the national government has not hesitated to adopt the technique of political pranksters from every crossroad whenever it was so disposed. With an election coming next year, it is scarcely surprising that the Bankhead suggestion should be greeted with hoots of skepticism.
What is more, it is apt to warm up the old fight between the administration and the press about the legitimacy of advertising itself. Up to the beginning of this year, textbooks, leftish academic men and various politicians had kept the pot of debate boiling about advertising-as-economic-waste.
Those politicians who found a sizable part of the press critical have sought to impose government restrictions, on the one hand, and, on the other, government advertising with a kind of contemptuous cynicism as a subsidy. The advertising profession has countered vigorously by denying the thesis that advertising is a waste and by offering proof of the long battle of publishers and advertising associations to eliminate waste and bad practices.
A HOUSE DIVIDED?
Anyone familiar with the facts has been forced to two conclusions. First, when advertising is given for some reason other than demonstrable sales stimulation, it is short-lived because it injures both advertiser and publisher. Second, advertising is the very lifeblood of an economic system which aims at greater demand, larger consumption and lower prices.
In any case the old conflict seemed to die down, temporarily at least, with the war. High official assurances have been given publishers and advertisers, and workable co-operation between them and the government has grown. The Treasury and other departments as well have shown warm appreciation of the advertising that has been given by private concerns to government projects, from bond sales to general morale boosters. Thanks to such demonstrations of co-operation, the quarrel about advertising as a "subsidy" has been almost forgotten.
The reported Bankhead bill is sure to reopen it. Inevitably that will create at a critical moment new sources of argument between the government and a press deeply concerned by last week's evidence of the administration's hankering to limit its freedom to report the coming international food conference. The press cannot be both free and subsidized. Nor can part of the press be subsidized and another part free. The Bankhead proposal will create a house divided against itself.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.