Now the Bloom Is Off the Rose
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
While we are nearer the end of the
war than we were three months ago,
we seem to be less interested in post-
war planning than we were. Perhaps
that is because our military people have
been consistently pessimistic about the
length of the war. More likely, it is be-
cause there are practical limits to post-
war planning which few people are frank
enough to admit publicly, but which
nevertheless dampen their ardor.
At the first blush, speculation in post
war futures is most glamorous. All sorts
of government and business organizations
rushed into it with a great hue and cry.
Then, after the first ramparts were car-
ried, they sobered up. For what lay be-
yond the said ramparts was no land of
milk and honey, but a valley full of mist.
The less conscientious—and this was
characteristic of government planners—
took no pains to explain the land under
the mist. They gave full vent to their
preconceptions and prejudices. Business
planners were, perforce, a bit more in-
quisitive; they moved with caution and
uttered pretty dreary reports.
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES
The public, bored by the visionaries
and the practical people alike, soon lost
all enthusiasm. And so, as a subject of
discussion, postwar planning has tum-
bled far down among topics of interest.
There are two reasons why public talk
about postwar prospects in business is
so sterile these days. In a competitive
society, private business concerns simply
cannot discuss in detail the things in
which people are most interested, which
are new products. No sane businessman
can be expected to spread on the table
all his plans for both the public and his
competitors to look at or to promise full
employment to everyone who wants it
when they cannot be sure they can make
good.
A dewy-eyed government planner can
promise full employment and get away
with it. By the time his fraud is discov-
ered he is far from the scene of action.
But a businessman must stay with his
workshop. And he cannot promise jobs
in 1945 when he cannot know what 1945
will bring in orders, or whether some
circumstance, perhaps of the govern-
ment’s own making, will make his guar-
antee invalid.
For both these reasons, the man in
the street cannot honestly know what
he can buy or what he will have to buy
with. And so he says postwar plans are
spinach and turns to more immediate
diversion.
PRAY AND WAIT
The businessman’s answer to demands
for postwar specifications needs no long
speeches before business associations. It
is simply this: that when he can get
some idea as to how far free competition
will emerge from the present totalitarian
trend; when he can be assured that he
will not have government as a competi-
tor; when he can know what kind of
money he will have to use to trade and
what tax policies he must meet, he can
plan.
Until then he must, in honesty, be
silent, pray and wait. He knows, as
Milton said, that “much remains to con-
quer still.” But also, along with Milton,
he cannot help but wonder about those
forces that threaten “to bind our souls
with secular chains.”
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Ryndira
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.