The Storm in the State Department
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A storm involving both personalities
and policies in the State Department is
already reverberating through Washington.
This conflict is no surprise to those
who have known conditions there over
the past 10 years. Its culmination is no
misfortune because it is better to have
such an inevitable difference brought out
before we arrive at the peace table.
What is the nature of this storm and in
what atmospheric currents did it originate?
Brushing aside dozens of little personal
items of interest only to gossipmongers,
the State Department situation boils down
to the attitude of the President toward
the Secretary of State. The two men are
personally very fond of each other. Affection
for the President is quite possible
even in those who violently disagree with
him. There are many shining facets to
that many-sided personality and they
have had a positive fascination for Mr.
Hull over the years. His personal affection
for the man he calls "Franklin" is
warmly reciprocated. On the President's
side; it goes back 25 years or more, to the
old Wilson days. Louis Howe, the President's
devoted intimate, told people, in
1928 that the Democrats should nominate
Hull for Vice-President on the ticket with
Al Smith.
HULL'S CONDITIONS
Hull's appointment to the top post in
the new administration was achieved only
after some coaxing and the acceptance by
the President-elect of certain major conditions—for Mr. Hull was then safely
anchored in a Senate seat by a State that
would unquestionably have kept him there
for many years. One of Mr. Hull's conditions, clearly agreed to, partly explains
present difficulties. It was that Mr. Hull
should be responsible for policy matters
and be wholly relieved of administrative
matters. That it is impossible to separate
policy from administration in foreign affairs did not occur to the hopeful and carefree mind of the new President. So began
a 10 years' ordeal for Mr. Hull.
When reforms in domestic affairs began
to mount in number and boldness, Mr.
Hull looked on rather sadly. He consoled
himself with a fallacious conclusion of his
own. He thought that domestic policies
might go to the left while foreign affairs
might go down the middle of the road.
We now see that domestic and foreign
policy are inseparable. And apparently
Mr. Hull sees it, too.
OTHER FOREIGN OFFICES
Mr. Hull's difficulty is intensified by the
fact that despite many years in the rough-
house of politics he is an exceedingly
sensitive man. He is like a prize fighter
of great natural powers who bleeds easily.
Mr. Roosevelt's happy-go-lucky way of
acting from hour to hour on hunches has
meant that hundreds of decisions have
been made and hundreds of persons have
been seen that Mr. Hull has known nothing about. Mr. Hull is not a man to suffer
the reputation of being a figurehead.
Beyond this, a further tendency of Mr.
Roosevelt appeared to add to Mr. Hull's
distress. The President has been setting
up other foreign offices all over the lot.
The B.E.W. and O.F.F. and later the O.W.I.
are examples. This would be embarrassing
even to a less sensitive Secretary of State.
The present major appointments in the
department illustrate the differences between the President and the Secretary.
Mr. Welles is an extremely ambitious
career man who, with great care, seeks
to please the President. Mr. Berle is apparently the President's notion. He has a
rare faculty of tossing up many bright
bits of world salvation before the President's dancing eyes. These two are regarded as Presidential pets.
STORM INEVITABLE
Another Assistant Secretary is Brecken-
ridge Long. He is sound, tactful, experienced and realistic. He is Mr. Hull's
choice. Mix such subordinates and a
storm is inevitable.
But beyond differences among subordinates is the fact that the conservative
course of Mr. Hull is constantly being
frustrated by the President's experimental
mind.
Mr. Hull's presence in this administration suggests the plight of an elderly and
conservative dean of a cathedral whose
bishop suddenly decided to introduce
rhythmic dancing into the Sunday services. He cannot bring himself to leave
the church, nor can he effectively lecture
the bishop. The congregation can only
view the situation with mixed feelings.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Byndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.