Hitler's Weak
Link in Balkans
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The first effects of the Russian-Czecho
slovakian treaty will be unmistakable
signs of a crack-up among Nazi satel-
lites. Bulgaria will bear careful watch-
ing. It is reported that peace feelers
have already been made and rejected but
that will not deter Bulgars in their ef-
forts to extricate themselves from the
plight for which they can blame no one
but themselves. Probably, now that they
are faced with the alternatives of being
bombed by Germany or by the United
Nations, they will vote for the bigger
bombers.
The fall of Bulgaria would be a heavier
blow to Germany than that of Italy. Ac-
cording to witnesses in Germany, the
collapse of Bulgaria in September, 1918,
was an immense psychological blow to
the Reich. Its repetition now would re-
call that day of doom, but it would also
open up real military advantages to the
United Nations.
THE COST FIGURED
Bulgarian troops have been freely used
in policing Greece and parts of Yugo-
slavia. The Bulgarians are better fighters
than the Italians and hence would, if
they changed sides, presumably do some-
thing more than surrender their arms.
Germany's need would be not only to
keep strong forces in Bulgaria but to re-
place Bulgarian troops in neighboring
states. Good military opinion holds that
withdrawal of Bulgaria from the war
would cost Hitler 20 divisions. Unless
he decided to withdraw from the Grecian
peninsula he would have to weaken his
Russian front still more and, by the
same token, his protection against a pos-
sible invasion from the west.
The Bulgarians, traditionally friendly
to Russia, have steadily refused to de-
clare war on Russia. The weak and
tricky King Boris probably gave his life
because of his refusal to attack Russia.
Whether it was his heart, as Germany re-
ported, or the work of German murder-
ers that laid him low, he died after his
last refusal to agree to Hitler's demands.
END OF ADVENTURE
The Turks are making every effort to
get the Bulgars to move into the Turkish
realm of nonbelligerency. Russia has
sent military observers to Sofia—no doubt
to report German activities in the Bal-
kans to Moscow.
And now the Czechs have shown Bul-
garia how nice it is to join Russia in an
alliance. This offers Bulgaria a clear
way to escape, in part at least, the wrath
of Anglo-American attacks now, as well
as possible trouble with Yugoslavia and
Turkey after the war.
Two years ago it seemed safe for King
Boris to declare war against the United
States, thousands of miles away. The
enemy they never expected to meet is
now blasting them from the skies. The
end of their sad adventure is at hand.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.