Re-employment
Complications
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
One of the many chickens hatched by a
labor-loving government whose return to
the roost is dreaded not only by unions
but by most businessmen is the promise
to re-employ. It looked like a big gain
for labor at first. Now people are run-
ning around in circles trying to figure out
what it means for the future. And so far
as anyone can see, all it means is an awful
mess.
A month ago, in a press conference,
the President expressed the hope that
employers in nonwar or civil industries
would promise to restore the jobs and the
seniority rights of those who left to work
in war plants. But this casual suggestion
was accompanied by no "implementation,"
which is the name used in Washington
to describe the bureaucratic folderol need-
ed to put a happy dream to work.
To make matters more complicated,
an act of Congress provides that an em-
ployer must promise a man who enters
the armed forces that he can get his job
back or, if his job is gone, that he can
have another at similar pay. This means
that promises to men leaving civil indus-
tries for war work are secondary to all
and sundry prior liens on the ex-jobs of
men in the services.
VOLUNTARY SO FAR
Eager to comply with the wishes of the
President, lack of "implementation" and
acts of Congress notwithstanding, the
United States Employment Service seems
to be trying to get voluntary compliance
with the President's suggestion. It is the
impression in official circles that com-
pliance, and such promises to re-employ
as are issued because of it, will remain
voluntary. But, according to reports from
at least one large city, the U.S.E.S. would
like to have a letter or release from em-
ployers in such case, a copy going to the
employee who leaves for a war job and
a copy going to the U.S.E.S. for the man's
file. Forms have not yet been drawn up,
however, and no method has yet been
devised to keep track of the issuance of
such promises by each firm.
The multiplication of these promises
will work like greenback inflation. The
more there are, the less will be back of
each one. Besides, as is suggested above,
these promises are all junior obligations.
Men returned from the services will have
the senior claims on jobs.
Now, assuming that these junior obliga-
tions could be legalized and "implemented,"
consider the involvements that would
snow them under. For example, along
comes Washington urging the concentra-
tion of businesses. To what extent is a
merged outfit obligated to re-employ the
absent employees of one or several con-
stituent companies? With great groups
of obligations outstanding against each of
the parties to such a merger, how does
each class fit in?
WHAT OF THESE?
What if a business has recently ac-
cepted the closed shop or its employees'
union memberships have been nicely but-
toned up in maintenance of membership
by the W.L.B.? Who gets the job when a
former employee turns up with a seniority
or a junior guarantee? And what if this
former employee, with his guarantee
backed by the United States government,
turns up with the honorable dust and
blood of Africa and Asia on him and says,
"The union be blasted. Give me back my
job, all my pay uncut by union dues"?
Another complication arises. In addition
to promises to re-employ, both senior and
junior, there are also union seniorities.
These are important in cases where the
union controls employment, notably in
some of the building trades, where the
union sends out the men to an employer
and even rotates them on the job.
Place these union seniorities alongside
employers' seniorities and what do you
have? Figure it out if you can. So disturb-
ing is this question to union officers that
some of them would like to see a man-
power act passed to clear it up. Of course,
we all know how legislation clears things
up.
These suggestions are made not to add
to the trouble of any New Deal builder of
roads to Utopia. Nor are they intended
to alarm union chieftains unduly. Or, need-
less to say, to prevent people from switch-
ing to war industries. The complications
in this promise-to-re-employ scheme are
suggested here simply to make the point
that it might be better to rely upon the
ordinary motives to take men out of civil
employment and into the war industries.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.