'Rollback Idea
Is a Delusion'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
That the whole rollback Idea is a de-
lusion becomes clear whenever a little
common sense is used in analyzing it. It
is a labor idea, advanced by the admin-
istration in one form or other to further
the political end of holding labor in 1944.
To make matters worse, spokesmen of
the administration are arguing for the
scheme by means of quasi statistics pro-
vided by economists who apparently pro-
vide politically pleasing arguments rather
than accurate pictures of the harsh reali-
ties to their bosses.
The rollback-by-subsidy Idea is born of
labor's one-sided comprehension of eco-
nomic laws and forces. Labor has found
that, either by private bargaining, by gov-
ernment flat or by both, the price of labor
can be controlled-pushed up or rolled
back or held, So labor thinkers rush to
the conclusion that a similar control can
be applied to prices.
DIFFERENT ON PRICES
Businessmen, merchants, manufacturers
and middlemen know better, however.
They know from long experience how
multitudinous and uncontrollable are the
forces that determine price. They know
that the best they can do is to anticipate
as many of those forces as possible and,
like mariners, fix the course of their ships
on the basis of these calculations, Labor
suffers from the delusion that since the
ship can be controlled, the weather and
tides can he, 100,
Some administration economists participate
in the game by turning up with exceedingly
odd statistics and interpretations. For
example, Dr. R. V. Gilbert of
the O.P.A. provides the quasi fact that
since England created price stability by
subsidies, we can do it here. The missing
part of that argument is that in England
subsidies were not the means of price
control; they were accessory. Price con-
trol was achieved by central buying and
selling, among other things. Central buy-
ing and selling, the elimination of middle-
men and many other factors effected very
great savings. Subsidies were merely bits
of oil dropped here and there to eliminate
squeaks. But you can no more control
prices with subsidies than pull a wagon
with axle grease.
'STABILIZED' HOW?
Take another bit of balderdash solemnly
presented to the public. We have been
told on the authority of the President
himself that "costs for clothing, furniture,
etc., have been stabilized." That this statement
was based upon statistics provided
by the OPA. is suggested by the fact
that several days before it was made,
O.P.A.'s Don Humphrey announced that
"the entire field of manufacturing and
wholesale prices has been effectively sta-
bilized." But that statement blandly ig-
nores essentials which utterly refute it.
It ignores the deterioration of qualities,
for one thing. It ignores the disappear-
ance of low-priced items, which forces the
buyer to take more expensive goods. It
ignores the so-called "percentage margin"
allowed in many cases by the O.P.A.,
which encourages the seller to sell high-
priced rather than cheaper articles. Finally,
it ignores the flourishing black markets
in the food and furniture fields.
Labor's naive belief in subsidies is
based on just such curious statistics. One
of its leaders, Thomas Murray, president
of the New York State Federation of La-
bor, was reported on July 29 as saying
that $2,000,000,000 in subsidies might mean
a saving of 25 to 30 billions in the food
bill of the American people. This, de-
spite the fact that the entire food bill of
the American people only runs around
$40,000,000,000.
If a $2,000,000,000 subsidy will produce a
$25,000,000,000 saving, why not increase
the subsidy to, say, $4,000,000,000, and have
no food bill at all?
Copyright, 1943. Chicago Journal of Commerce & Syndicate
Any Time
San Francisco Chronicle
July 26, 1942, the Frankfurter Zeitung
said editorially: "Today one does not talk
about the conquest of Tripoli by the Brit-
ish, or of an Anglo-Saxon landing and
action in West Africa, or about Sicily
or other such objectives, but about the
Nile Valley and the Suez Canal." Okay,
Frankfurter Zeitung. Let's talk about the
Nile Valley and the Suez Canal.
Point of View
Omaha World Herald
A fellow who worries about such things
says this planet would look blue, if seen
from Mars. And how does he think it
looks from here?
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.