Surrender Needs
a Definition
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is too much to expect Messrs. Roosevelt and Churchill to draw postwar blueprints at their conference. This meeting is a council of war held at a critical and decisive moment in the conflict. So the Atlantic Charter and other general formulas must remain in their present undefined state. But the expression—unconditional surrender—is a war weapon, not a peace plan, and many Americans wish it could be spelled out. For the term clearly describes an objective with which Russia does not agree and it may be unintelligible even to those elements in the enemy and occupied countries upon whom we must depend for the inevitable internal explosion that will make victory possible.
In the well-thumbed lexicon of Europe there is no such word as "unconditional." Everything there is conditional, tentative, changeable. Hundreds of years of diplomatic double talk have given Europeans an abiding doubt that anything can be final and uncompromising. Hence their various interpretations of Gen. Grant's phrase may hinder, rather than hasten, peace.
FORT, NOT A NATION
The term as Gen. Grant used it applied to a fort, not a nation. When the Confederates were hemmed in at Ft. Donelson in 1862, they asked for terms. Grant answered, "No terms except unconditional and immediate surrender can be accepted. I propose to move immediately upon your works." The fort surrendered.
In the practical application of the terms to Italy, Gen. Eisenhower made clear that there were conditions. These several conditions were apparently designed to keep that country intact and unbroken by revolution and disorder. There may be similar reasons for keeping the Balkan countries intact when they surrender. With respect to Germany the case may or may not be the same.
In any event, Stalin has already made clear a number of conditions that appear to limit the Roosevelt-Churchill terms. His "Free Germany" movement seems to take it for granted that a stable government and even a minimum military force will be allowed Germany after its surrender. Can it be that there will be bidding among the United Nations to determine which one will be the recipient of the surrender?
That, of course, brings us to an essential condition in even an "unconditional surrender." To whom shall the surrender be made? No doubt Germany would rather surrender to the United States, for fortunately that is made possible by the fact that the invasion armies are headed by an American general.
NO NAZI BADOGLIO
Next the surrender of a nation differs in kind and degree from the surrender of a fort or an army. It involves the surrender of the vast facilities of the whole nation. The immediate custody and internal detailed government of the nation can never stop. What temporary government should be recognized? Germany has no Badoglio. All the heroes of the last war are gone. It has no Socialist party leaders of importance, no republican leaders, its legitimate Hohenzollerns are hardly usable, and no Nazi could be recognized. There are indications that the wily Schacht might be offered, but he, too, would hardly have the prestige to hold things together.
The false Nazi claim that Germany's misfortunes all came from the Treaty of Versailles has been hammered home for 20 years by Hitler and others. This fixation is an impediment to surrender—it is not possible to controvert their beliefs now, but in some way it might be made perfectly clear that surrender does not mean the surrender of the land, homes and cattle of the people themselves. Many of these matters cannot be made part of a Roosevelt-Churchill manifesto after the current meeting. But even a council of war should clarify the underlying questions involved.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Really Solid
Des Moines Register
"Density of population," declares a sociologist, "is the chief cause of war." And the density between the ears of some of the higher-ups is the chief cause of the squabbles on the home front.
Natural Talent
Des Moines Register
The mockingbird, naturalists aver, has been known to change its tune 87 times in seven minutes. What politicians mockingbirds would make.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.