Watch Turkey
From Now On
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CHICAGO, Feb. 8—There is no disposition
in this column to pose as a military
expert. But it will do no harm to suggest
that you keep your eye on Turkey.
In the first place, there seems to be
some difference among the doctors as to
where the under-belly of Europe really
is. In early January Mr. Roosevelt, using
Mr. Churchill’s term, said that Tunisia
was near that under-belly. But Dr. Stalin
has apparently found another by using
the excellent exploratory instrument of a
hobnailed boot. His success in finding or
making a soft spot has resulted in feverish
diplomatic activities. All center in Turkey.
What does this mean?
Let us turn to the technique of politics
for an answer, for the major decisions in
this war are being made by statesmen-
politicians, Mr. Roosevelt mentioned not
so long ago the possibility of an invasion
of Europe through Norway, the Low Countries,
France, Sardinia, Sicily, the Balkans
or Poland. But never expect statesmen
to jeopardize the success of their moves by
telling about them first. When their words
are most vague, sententious and general,
their thoughts are most specific and definite.
The best way to discover what statesmen
or, indeed, anyone else will do is to
study what they have done. This is the
old theory behind the “modus operandi”
system. It is based on the fact that, in
a critical moment, a man will always perform
an operation in a way determined
by long established habits of thought.
VIEWS SUMMED UP
With Mr. Churchill this is easy. In his
book, “The World Crisis,” he has given
us 250 pages of explanation of his great
but unsuccessful effort in 1915 to force
the Dardanelles. He took the gamble because
the war on the west front was dead-
locked. He took it because he believed
that, “the greater the general, the more
he contributes in maneuver, the less he
demands in slaughter.”
“Nearly all the battles which are regarded
as masterpieces of the military art
from which have been derived the foundation
of states and the fame of commanders,”
he wrote, “have been battles
of maneuver in which very often the enemy
has found himself defeated by some
novel expedient or device, some queer,
swift, unexpected thrust or stratagem.
There are maneuvers in time, in diplomacy,
in mechanics, in psychology; all
of which are removed from the battlefield
but react often decisively upon it, and
the object of all is to find easier ways,
other than sheer slaughter, of achieving
the main purpose. The distinction between
politics and strategy diminishes as the
point of view is raised. At the summit
true politics and strategy are one.”
Mr. Churchill set down categorically his
principles of warfare. The first of these
is worthy of note: “The decisive theater
is the theater where a vital decision may
be obtained at any given time. The main
theater is that in which the main armies
or fleets are stationed. This is not at all
times the decisive theater.”
Of his principles of warfare he wrote:
“These general principles remained my
guide throughout the whole war. They
run counter, of course, to the dominant
military view.”
KEEP IT IN MIND
All this is good to remember as we contemplate
the future of this war. First,
the decision may be wholly unexpected.
Second, the expected thing is what you
read about most in the papers. Third,
what army officers are saying about strategy,
must be considered in the light of
the fact that Mr. Churchill’s principles
are not “the dominant military view.”
Fourth, a statesman always seeks to vindicate
a defeated judgment in the past.
Fifth. Mr. Churchill’s greatest defeat was
the Dardanelles campaign and he always
believed that had he been supported by
the government and Parliament he would
have succeeded. Sixth, he is now boss in
England. Seventh, he left Casablanca for
a visit to Turkey. Eighth, a member of
his Cabinet, Lord Beaverbrook, ceased
to call for a second front and last week
began to speak of the eastern front as
the real soft spot of Europe.
And ninth, Mr. Churchill’s associate,
Mr. Roosevelt, is equally the master of
the “queer, swift, unexpected thrust or
stratagem.” So it may be well to keep
Turkey in mind.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.