The case of Thomas A. Aurelio, who is
fighting an attempt to disbar him and so
keep him out of a high judicial office in
New York, has overtones of national im-
portance. There is nothing unusual about
Aurello. He had been an average job-
holder for a long time. Then when he
wanted a promotion to a higher court he
followed a pattern familiar to New York
City. He got the Tammany district backer
interested. This was easy, for Tammany
now has women co-leaders in the dis-
tricts, and Mrs. Aurelio was a co-leader.
Two or three other leaders were ap-
parently enlisted also. Finally, the head
of Tammany, the honorable Michael
Kennedy, M.C., and New Deal stalwart,
was won over. By a bipartisan arrange-
ment the Republican organization was
brought to indorse Aurelio, too. He was
as good as elected.

DANGERS SHOWN
Then something happened. It was dis-
closed that one Costello, whose record
was very bad indeed, had been extremely
helpful in Aurelio's behalf with Tammany
big shots. Both parties officially tried to
repudiate their action, but law was law
and Aurelio was on the ballot. So as a
last resort, disbarment proceedings are
under way.
This incident is Tammany in action--
Tammany unreformed and unregenerate,
a system which explains many things.
First, it explains why the city of New
York elected and twice re-elected Fiorello
LaGuardia, whose defects in temperament
and experience were well known, rather
than keep Tammany in charge. It ex-
plains the fact that Thomas E. Dewey
has become the second most popular fig-
ure in the nation despite his own lack
of experience as a statesman. And it ex-
plains more clearly than anything else
why a job-holding bureaucracy is a dan-
gerous and intolerable form of govern-
ment.
There are many extenuating things that
can be said for Tammany. It has produced
a few great men; it has provided humane
care for neglected poverty and it has pro-
vided opportunity for many honest and
useful young men in public office and in
the professions. But over the years it has
also protected crime, mismanaged govern-
ment and wasted public funds and prop-
erty.

GREATEST DEFECT
But Tammany's greatest defect is not
its corruption or inefficiency. It is that
it has preserved a form of government
which belongs to the Dark Ages, essen-
tially. It is a form of government through
which, by the maintenance of blind and
unblinking discipline in its members, a
few leaders exercise unbridled and un-
checked power. It has maintained an al-
liance with certain big businesses and
labor organizations that has been no credit
to them. It has held itself in power by a
self-perpetuating bureaucracy. Such a
form of government is not unlike that
which Mussolini fastened upon Italy.
In its essence it does not belong to
America. And in so far as the great bu-
reaucracy which has grown up in Wash-
ington resembles the Tammany pattern
it, too, is dangerous to our institutions.
It should not be forgotten that Ken-
nedy, whose actions are concerned in this
Aurelio case, was only last year an ally
of the New Deal in its effort to capture
the Governorship of New York.
If, as is likely, the perpetuation of the
Washington bureaucracy next year will
depend upon the margin of votes con-
trolled by the big city machines, we may
yet see a nation governed by the princi-
ples that have so long sustained Tam-
many.
Copyright, 1935, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.