Land Boom
Causes Worry
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
There is a good deal of concern in Washington over the current boom in farm
property. Official Washington isn't talking about it much because nobody knows
what to do about it. And for a New Deal economist to note an economic trend without
suggesting a law to change that trend is New Deal heresy.
Vice-President Wallace, in his class-struggle speech in Des Moines, predicted a
land boom, but he turned his remarks into a class appeal when he remarked that
there ought to be a law to prevent city folks from going out into the country to
take farmers' money in postwar speculation. How these city-slicker raids were to be
carried out, Henry did not make clear, but right now the city slicker is on the paying,
not the receiving, end.
NEARING A BOOM
Reports from various States in the Middle West indicate increases in the prices of
farm property which have begun to reach boom-like proportions. Federal Reserve
economists in some districts report an upward swing similar to that which
characterized the period 1911-1920. These increases, according to almost all competent
judges, are due chiefly to the rise in the prices of farm produce which, from
September, 1939, to May, 1913, have moved up about 90 per cent. Some of the
increase in land prices, however, comes from the fact that there is no small amount
of money seeking a haven from inflation. Warworkers' savings, going back to the
places from which the workers came, constitute still a third source of the rising tide.
Some of the methods for controlling land prices under discussion, but not yet officially
suggested, are, first, the taxation of farm land transfers and increased taxation of
capital gains; second, purchase permits and, third, credit control.
The first of these proposals would find hard going in Congress. Farmers who have
held their land for many hard years are not going to accept, without violent protest, a
proposition that the government seize the profit which suddenly looms from the sale of
their land. If any attempt should be made to classify such taxes in accordance with the
type of prospective buyer, such as tenant, owner, investor or speculator, the almost
insuperable problem of defining a buyer would arise.
SMELLS OF FEUDALISM
The second proposition, which tends to bind the farmer to his land, smells so much
of European feudalism that it, too, is vulnerable. Credit control is suggested as a sort
of ceiling price applied to real estate. But a fairly strict credit control already exists in
the administration of farm credit—both by the government and by private lenders.
In short, governmental action in this field offers no prospect of lessening the dangers
inherent in a boom. Natural circumstances will have to be depended upon to prevent
disaster. The chief danger is to the speculator, and the average American farmer is no
speculator. The memories of the last land boom are fresh in the public mind, and a
reasonable amount of caution is likely to prevail. Certainly, a large degree of conservatism
will characterize lending institutions whose fingers, burned from previous loans on inflated
values, still show livid scars. And the probability that the potential production of farm
products after the war will be very great will warn wise purchasers against over-optimism
about prices.
Unwise purchasers cannot be protected anyhow. Nothing has ever protected the unwise.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.