States Face
New 'Invasion'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Even in wartime, the New Deal is in-
tent upon its revolution. In the field of
insurance regulation, one of the boldest
of invasions of the authority of the States
has been going on for more than a year.
In this it is easy to see one of the major
fourth term issues of 1944.
Senators Bailey and Van Nuys have in-
troduced a bill to keep the regulation of
insurance in the States. The fight over this
bill is just beginning. State Governors,
whose recent conferences have opened
new chapters in statesmanship, are com-
ing to the support of the bill. But we may
expect a full dress New Deal attack upon
it. If this succeeds the door will be
opened to almost limitless invasion of
the States, not by authority of Congress
but by bureaucratic manipulation of
judge-made law. Because it is a back door
entry, it is high time to turn on the lights.
A MAJOR ATTACK
Back in 1938 the temporary National
Economic Committee, well padded with
New Deal staff lawyers, made a major
attack upon life insurance. The companies
did well in meeting this effort, but it was
clear that the next attack would be on
fire insurance. The war intervened, how-
ever, and a less direct attack began. The
Justice Department in August, 1942,
brought about the indictment of more
than 200 companies and individuals in
the Federal District Court of Atlanta. The
case made by the government was elab-
orate. It displayed vast erudition. Its real
object was quite obviously to bring about
a legal revolution in the traditional rights
of States to regulate insurance.
The point was that if the government
could get the courts to reverse the law
of 75 years and to declare insurance to
be commerce, they could, through criminal
antitrust proceedings, bring the control
of insurance under the Department of Jus-
tice and throw State laws into confusion.
The effort would be to make criminal cer-
tain actions of the business of insurance
which, under State laws, were practically
compulsory.
THE WAY TO SAVE IT
Judge Underwood of Atlanta threw out
the indictments, declaring that "the Su-
preme Court decisions must be followed
by this court." The case now must go to
the new Supreme Court and, in light of
the tone of that court's recent decisions,
there is a good chance that the sought-
for legal revolution may be declared
there.
Only Congress can make sure that the
States can be saved from this further loss
of power. The Bailey-Van Nuys bill is
short and to the point. Insurance, it de-
clares, is a matter for State regulation.
There is no need for the "displacement or
encumbrance" of the States by a Federal
bureau or otherwise. And, since long ex-
perience has justified State regulation,
the Federal antitrust laws shall not ap-
ply to the business of insurance.
Here is a double-edged issue. Is war-
time a proper moment to bring about a
legal revolution? And are States, at a mo-
ment when Federal bureaucracy is creak-
ing in every joint, to be further reduced
in importance? The answers lie with Con-
gress.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.