Flynn-Walker
Duo Appraised
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The resignation of Edward J. Flynn
and the reported succession of Postmaster
General Frank Walker to the Democratic
national chairmanship throw into the
news two of the oldest and somehow least
well-known figures in Mr. Roosevelt's po-
litical career. But it means no essential
change in the way the national committee
is conducted.
Walker and Flynn have much in com-
mon. Both are exceedingly fond of the
President, yet, curiously enough, neither
is a real New Dealer. So far as they have
any influence in shaping policies, they
have advised the President to go slow on
domestic reform. While the President re-
turns their personal affection, he pays
little or no attention to their counsel on
questions of broad policy. But after he
has called the plays, both Flynn and
Walker are in there pitching for "the
boss." They have a quality of tolerance
that zealous New Dealers lack. In par-
ticular, there is never the slightest cool-
ing of personal relations between them
and those who go all-out in disagreement
with the President, for both are realists
in politics.
And it is a fact not generally known
that Flynn is a man of education and no
inconsiderable cultural attainments. This
is certainly not the stereotype of Flynn
that the country knows. But he is widely
read, philosophical in his mental bent
and utterly objective in his attitude to-
ward politics.
FLYNN'S RISE
A combination of fortuitous circum-
stances made him a politician. As a young
man his pleasant manner made him many
friends. He grew up in an intense politi-
cal atmosphere and when the great boss
of New York bosses, Charles F. Murphy,
selected him as leader of the Bronx, he
gladly accepted what no young man could
lightly push aside-especially a young
man to whom hard work was distasteful
and to whom life had always been good.
After a few years he was summoned to
be Secretary of State and personal politi-
cal mentor for the new and rising Gov-
ernor of New York. He loved Roosevelt,
but he did not want to be national chair-
man in 1940. When the big boss sum-
moned him then, however, he complied.
Those who know Flynn have often re-
marked that the details of running the
immense political principality of the Bronx
bored him in the main. He lived in regal
detachment from the scuffling of local
politics. His leaders took care of details,
and he saw that the leaders were cared
for with jobs. On the whole, the Bronx
was run with considerable efficiency and
little scandal. Flynn probably lays down
the Bronx crown and the national chair-
manship with immense relief. He has his
books, the material means of comfort,
his friends and the unquestionable sup-
port and friendship of the President.
A PEEP AT MAC ARTHUR?
There need be no mystery about his
mission to Australia. Obviously little work
is connected with the job. It affords dig-
nified opportunity for travel. And while
perhaps this is reading too much into the
opportunity, it permits the President to
have a trusted lieutenant and keen ob-
server to evaluate a possible opposition
candidate for President, to wit, Gen. Mac-
Arthur. That is no sin, either, and it will
not hamper the conduct of the war.
A lot of bitter things may be said about
Flynn's diplomatic appointment. This dis-
course is not intended to pass judgment
on his qualifications for ambassadorial
or ministerial duties or any other official
duties. Those are for the Senate to judge
after Mr. Flynn tells his own story. This
is merely to delineate the outlines of a
colorful figure who has wielded great
power for many years without losing the
human qualities with which he started.
Mr. Walker's association with Mr.
Roosevelt goes back before 1932. If he
becomes national chairman of the Demo-
cratic party, it will be with great reluc-
tance, and largely because no other suit-
able party head could be found.
He will continue the Flynn tradition
in the national committee. That means
that the committee will be conducted in
a leisurely manner. The real head of
the party will continue to live at 1600
Pennsylvania Ave.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.