'Let the Public
Know the Truth'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The request by Senator George that the
Brookings Institution make a nonpolit-
ical, impartial study of the relations of
government and business in meeting post-
war problems suggests the necessity for
delegating to some nonpolitical agency.
another, more immediate, statistical job.
That undertaking should be to attempt
to inform the public, in the not-too-far-
distant future, of the facts with reference
to civilian production now and in the year
to come. The situation at present is
utterly confused and, as the political year
1944 approaches, the contusion is likely to
grow.
'THE SPARTAN ERA'
During the first year after Pearl Har-
bor, Washington provided what may be
called the Spartan era. Mr. Henderson
was its prophet and its purpose was ap-
parently to harden the public for we well
remember what happened. Mr. Hender-
son disappeared from the scene and was
replaced by Mr. Brown. Mr. Byrnes was
given more authority. Mr. Vinson and
Marvin Jones appeared. All of these eco-
nomic bosses were men who had faced
real voters. They know how to please
people, how to ease their pain and make
hardship more comfortable. The com-
monly assumed reason for their appoint-
ment—that they could get on better with
Congress—was only half the story. The
great public behind Congress was in
mind. Hence we have been getting bet-
ter news.
The headlines over the past few weeks
reflect the change. Vacationists in the
East will get a bit of gasoline. A gain in
textiles is seen for civilians. There will
be a rise in the cutlery output. Rubber
victory by 1944 is assured. The rayon
outlook is better. Certain kinds of foot-
wear are freed of rationing. Milk ration-
ing is remote. More coffee is provided.
More steel production for civilian goods
is envisaged.
THEY GREW TOGETHER
There are fundamental factors behind
these moves. The government is discov-
ering that the 1942 estimates of civilian
production were vastly more pessimistic
than were justified. As one industrial
economist puts it, the government greatly
underestimated the "fecundity" of Amer-
ican industry. Instead of the great gain
in war production cutting disastrously
into civilian production, the two segments
grew together.
But lest these two developments be
used either by or against the administra-
tion in the coming political campaign, it
is essential that the public be informed
of its prospects by some impartial means.
That is why the proposal of Senator
George might well he followed by the ad-
ministration in this whole field of pro-
duction.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Birthday Candles
BY DOROTHY HULL BEATTY
Eighteen candles on your cake
This day, this year, O Son,
Yet in my heart a secret, silent ache,
For I would see again that first brave one.
Eighteen tiny candles that once were four
Symbolize the bivouac, the torch of war
Youth must wield across a suffering world,
That liberty's emblazoned banner forever
be unfurled.
Their frail light flickers and burns low—
I pray the Lord for courage when you go.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.