Some Premature Electioneering
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
To date, public reaction to the maneu-
vers of friends of the outstanding con-
tenders for the Democratic and Repub-
lican nomination, respectively, has been
an unbroken, a complete and an abso-
lute apathy. On the Democratic side,
that is more or less what was morosely
anticipated. On the Republican side, it
is setting up curious subterranean ten-
sions which will bear watching.
Considering the fact that the White
House has at its service a dramatist of
parts, Robert Sherwood, it's a pity that
we are not getting a different draft-the-
President routine this time than we did
in 1940. The third-term "draft" was not
very good theater. A repetition of its
preliminaries would be positively corny.
Yet here we are again, with Senator
Guffey speaking his piece, while Chair-
man Walker ruminates in vocal nega-
tives without Presidential reproof.
NET OF CIRCUMSTANCES
Still the President, whatever his ulti-
mate intentions, can hardly avoid the
consequences of his position. He can-
not prevent the Guffeys from talking,
although he can and should prevent
his official family from putting out feel-
ers, because it is so obvious that no
Democrat except himself has a chance
of being elected. To give him all credit,
we may assume that he believes him-
self best fitted to finish the war. He
could scarcely be expected to anticipate
complete victory before November, 1944.
This leaves him caught in a net of
circumstances from which no escape is
possible, although each and every cir-
cumstance is of his own devising. He
himself has done much to break down
the habit of full and frank expression
of public plans and policies. He has
taught people to expect what in other
time would be the unexpected. Because
he has so often used the technique of
smart indirection instead of simplicity,
the public has inevitably developed a
thick shell of cynicism about the ex-
pressions of men in office. He has built
up no successor. His failure to pick
strong colleagues has left him almost
alone in the midst of a sea of official
mediocrity. There is no one, then, able
to wield the leader's sword.
So, among the Democrats, we may ex-
pect months of apathy, enlivened only
by sharp, petty bickering—unless, of
course, the President publicly announces
either his candidacy or his prospective
retirement.
AS FOR THE REPUBLICANS
In the face of this, the Republican
opposition can offer a wholesome alter-
native. It can proceed with the expec-
tation that its candidate, whoever he
is, will run against the President. Its
field of choice is excellent this year, for
it has six or eight Governors, any one
of whom would make a satisfactory Pres-
ident, and an equal number of available
Senators. It also has Mr. Willkie.
Mr. Willkie has every right to seek
the nomination and to choose his own
time to start fighting for it. The launch-
ing of his campaign now, however, has
done nothing to increase his party's
chances of ultimate success in the next
election.
Mr. Willkie's campaigning since No-
vember, 1940, has been directed against
people of his own party, rather than
against the Democratic party. He has
made a few criticisms of the war effort
in Washington, but they have been so
wholly general as to be unimportant. On
all essential matters of policy, Mr. Willkie
is at one with the President. By contrast,
his attacks upon leaders in his own party
have been exceedingly specific. There is
immense opposition to him among them.
PULLING AND HAULING?
Plainly, his candidacy now will start
up half a dozen others. Since most of the
other putative candidates are Governors,
this means less attention to State busi-
ness, and more attention to national pol-
itics. That, and the attendant pulling and
hauling, will result not only in a net
loss to the public over the long period
of 15 months, but in a weakening of the
party's claims for the public's support.
In the end, of course, all the energies
of Mr. Willkie and all the efforts of the
rival Governors and Senators may come
to nothing if, as is possible, this war pro-
duces a first rank military leader and
hero. In that case, Mr. Willkie and his
rivals will simply have prepared the way
for his emergence. He may be Gen. Mac-
Arthur or he may be someone whom few
people know. But when he appears, he
may well be the choice of a distracted
and divided Republican convention.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Doomsday Book
in New Edition
BY ALMA WHITAKER
When William the Conqueror took over
Britain in 1066 A.D., the statistical woes of
the world were born.
Ideas about efficient taxation simmered
and by 1085 A.D. they were nicely cooked
and ready to serve. The delectable dish
became known as the Doomsday Book. It
has been improved beyond all imagination
in the succeeding centuries, and the 1943
recipe will make the 1055 one seem like
watery gruel.
The Doomsday Book required everybody
and everything to be listed "for taxation
purposes," and specifies "freemen, vassals,
villeins, cotters, serfs."
One entry records that the Bishop of
London held "40 hides," and that, between
them, vassals and freemen, owned 26
ploughs. One serf is listed as owning
"half a hide and 17 pence." Most of the
wealthy freemen—the bloated capitalists
of that day—held their largess in the
form of sheep and cattle.
The Doomsday Book dish was not com-
pletely popular. Bishops and vassals were
equally hesitant about its charms. But
succeeding administrations liked it so well
that the recipe was never wholly dis-
carded, although a few ingredients were
omitted or substituted with varying sub-
tlety.
Our 1943 version will stress "bulk,"
"vitamins" and impressive laxative quali-
ties. Our Congressional chefs are in potent
conference. Our stomachs await their ver-
dict with what resignation we can muster.
Anyway, it will taste much better if we
christen it Victory Pudding, and chew it
with such relish as we can. Otherwise
we may all become "serfs," and lucky to
be listed as owning "half a hide and 17
pence" in the next Doomsday Book.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.