Mr. Wallace
and the 'Cartels'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It has been obvious for a long time that
the New Deal intends to use "cartels" in
1944 much as Bryan used "trusts." So the
Henry Wallace blast was not unexpected.
As the word "cartel" is thrown about, it
is losing all precise meaning and ultimately
will be the screen behind which a generalized
class attack upon business enterprise will be
carried on. For in its precise sense, "cartel"
is a word for the courtroom rather than the
soapbox.
A cartel is a combination of commercial
or political interest. As the word is used
in Europe, it describes a combination of
producers to regulate prices, output and
markets. Thus, a German cartel would be
illegal in the United States. But in dealings
of an international character, American
companies have always been free, under our
law, to make agreements in their own or our
national interest with foreign combinations
which would themselves be illegal in America.
Such agreements are not in themselves cartels
and, as can be shown by innumerable examples,
can clearly be in the interest of this country.
The fact is that cartels can be made by
government itself. Mr. Wallace's A.A.A. was,
in effect, a cartel created under government
authority to guarantee minimum prices.
THE REAL ISSUE
The issue, then, comes down to the question
of whether each particular agreement is a good
deal from the standpoint of the United States
as a nation. To single out one company, as Mr.
Wallace did, and to carry on a public controversy
is hardly the way to get at the truth for the
discussion then becomes an effort to create
prejudices wholly aside from the legal or public
policy involved.
The Wallace charges are old. They have been
freely discussed before, and the people against
whom they are made seem abundantly able to
reply. But as is usual with charges of that sort,
the remedy is vague!
What are Henry's suggestions? Entire withdrawal
of American companies from all international
agreements with foreign companies? That would
be a type of isolation anathema to Wallace. Would
he require all foreign patents to be licensed to all
comers? Or would he require the licensing of all
patents? Surely not the latter, because that would
hurt his "common man" for it would pinch small
manufacturers most.
WELL PROTECTED
Does Mr. Wallace suggest that Mr. Roosevelt's
Attorneys General have been incapable of enforcing
the Sherman Act, which presumably deals with
monopolies, domestic or foreign, or in combination?
He has not said so. The fact is that he scarcely
hints at any remedy that big engineering firms
and industrial corporations would not accept or, in
fact, have not advocated long ago.
The National Association of Manufacturers has
been on record for a considerable time as follows:
"We approve in principle the recording of agreements,
particularly international agreements, pertaining
to patents or the filing thereof with the Patent
Office where such instruments contain restrictive
provisions or involve cross-licensing under patents
or the pooling of patents."
Along with some such measure of compulsory
publicity, the government might well determine in
advance what agreements are in the national interest.
Experience would probably show that even the
wisest bureaucrat would not be able to protect
American interests better than our big companies
have done in recent years.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.