The Conferences and Their Publicity
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Before we come to the question of bad
handling of the publicity on the Cairo
and Teheran conferences, let us ask our-
selves whether publicity about them was
really important at all. The purpose of
the conferences was to plan strategy, to
agree upon the timing of attacks and, in
a preliminary way, to decide what to tell
the enemy countries about their postwar
fate. In short, the purpose of the confer-
ences was to shorten the war, save young
men's blood, lift the agony of slavery from
Europe and enable people to turn more
quickly to the ways of peace.
These being the deadly serious purposes
of the heads of state who met there, why,
it may be asked, is the exact timing of
the release of the facts about the confer-
ence important? Is all the outcry we hear
just the complaint of American news-
papers who have been scooped through
no fault of their own by the press of
other countries? If this be true, we can
rest content, for such a bad deal to the
American press can be made up by a
good deal some other time.
THE REAL IMPORTANCE
But there is something of the essence
that helps shorten the war and that
saves lives in a world-wide realization
of the true unity of those who are fight-
ing. We are helped by the fact of unity
and we are further helped by knowledge
of the fact of unity. For people to know
of a real meeting of minds of the nations
all around the world is power to their
elbows, steel in their eyes. Knowledge is
power.
Hence, the bungling of the news of the
conference is of prime importance. It
is a failure that lets the hopes of men
everywhere die a little.
Perhaps it would have been better if
the principals had thought less of the
theatrical aspects of their meeting and
had permitted others to look after that.
Benjamin Franklin at Versailles, in the
dark hours of the Revolution, had upon
his shoulders the fate of his people just
as truly as does Franklin D. Roosevelt
now. But he pottered around town, see-
ing people who were important to his
mission, reaching agreements and de-
cisions, with no thought of how it all
looked.
Perhaps we have outgrown that sim-
plicity, what with the radio and the rest.
But if we have reached the age of great
showmanship, we must be real showmen.
If the cast is all-star, the scene shifter
must be good, too.
A RACE FOR EDITIONS
The past 10 days of empty generalities
about how people have been meeting "to
crush Japan and Germany" have been
hard to stand. Who, in the name of heav-
en, are we in this war to "crush" but
Japan and Germany? Is it news that when
the heads of nations meet it is "to plan"?
The tragedy of it all is that when the
final word comes out, it may be unable
to turn this tide of frustration and irri-
tation that has been set in motion by all
the banality that has been vouchsafed us.
For whatever we may be told of the
abstraction of unity, what we have seen
is disunity. What we have seen is a sor-
did race between those powers profess-
ing to be engaged in saving the world—
a race to see who makes the first edition.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.