Charting a Path
for Americans
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
There is a new, potent and refreshing
political voice in this country. In the
current Atlantic Monthly, President James
B. Conant of Harvard, who has spent
most of his life in science, speaks his
mind on broad political questions. One
must suspect that he saw plenty in the
past year or two in and around Wash-
ington to prompt his sharp challenge to
bureaucracy and federalization.
It is nothing new for Harvard presi-
dents to talk out in town meeting. That
is a good old tradition up there. Presi-
dent Eliot talked up pertly to national
administrations, labor and everyone else
with whom he disagreed over a stretch
of close to 75 years. Doubtless President
Conant, who was one of the authors of
the report on the rubber debacle, and saw
at firsthand the dreadful improvidence
of the political show run by a former
editor of the Harvard Crimson, was ir-
resistibly moved to take the birch from
behind the door, just as college presidents
proverbially do in the case of editors of
college papers.
WHAT KIND OF NATION?
At any rate it is not likely that the
President of the United States will iden-
tify himself with the "American radical,"
whose ideas and wants are the theme
of the President of Harvard's pointed
lecture. In the first place, President
Conant says, we can scarcely plan the
role of America in the postwar play until
we know who the main actor is going
to be. One might as well write a play
before knowing whether the chief char-
acter is to be a man or woman. We've
got to decide first, in short, what kind
of nation we are going to be before we
enter the good ship Gulliver for a tour
of the world.
Unlike some other college presidents
who are wooing about how we must de-
cide whether to be isolationist or interna-
tional, President Conant makes it plain
that this isn't the choice. The choice is
simply among ways of co-operating rea-
sonably without losing our national char-
acter. Nor is the choice on the domestic
scene between Marx and Mark Hanna.
The old-fashioned reactionary is gone.
The European-minded radical is impos-
sible. Between the two is the true Amer-
ican radical, a forgotten man who would
have walked with the gods a century
ago—with Jefferson, Emerson, Thoreau
and Whitman.
DEFINITION GIVEN
This American radical, says Conant,
believes in equality of opportunity and
does not waste his time trying to equalize
rewards. He does not like Federal sub-
sidizers of education. He is very sensitive
about individual rights as opposed to the
police power of the state. He believes
that the Federal government must act
in some situations, but he seeks first to
define government as local, State and
regional.
He opposes the swollen power of
groups, whether they represent labor,
agriculture or capital. He is not sym-
pathetic to the hereditary passing of eco-
nomic power. He asks the States, not
the nation, to bear a major burden in
helping the returned soldier. He demands,
as President Conant has done in his own
reports, an overhauling of educational
methods.
President Conant speaks at a moment
when this country really needs new ideas
of future policy. When we survey the
field of possible choice, we find many good
alternatives to a fourth term. But most
of the prospective candidates, while they
are excellent Governors of States, have
done little thinking about national prob-
lems. They will have much to learn in
the next year and they will need help
from just such schoolmasters as Presi-
dent Conant.
There is certainly nothing in Conant's
American radical that resembles the new
bureaucrats who have followed Prof.
Frankfurter from the Harvard Law School
to Washington. Harvard, in this lively
statement of political faith, has done
a lot to redeem itself for that doubtful
contribution to our national life.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.