One of the war casualties must be a
sense of humor around the White House
or someone would have advised against
the following passage in the President's
statement about the appointment of Chief
Mobilizer Byrnes: "We are entering a
phase of the war effort when we must
streamline our activities, avoid duplica-
tion and overlapping, eliminate interde-
partmental friction, make decisions with
dispatch, and keep both our military
machine and our essential civilian econ-
omy running in team and at high speed."
When, it may be asked in reply, is the
time in a war effort to do these things
which, according to this remarkable con-
fession, have not been done before? We
have supposedly had a war economy for
three years. Yet government is only now
admitting that the time has come to
create a form of governmental organiza-
tion really suited to the situation.

WHAT WAS HE BEFORE?
But let us pass that question. What is
past is past. The question now is whether
this new order does what the President's
statement says it does, and, what is
equally important, whether the people in
charge are the sort of people to accom-
plish the desired end?
Perhaps the key to the answer to both
questions is the answer to a third. What
was Mr. Byrnes when, not so many
months ago; he was taken from the Su-
preme Court, housed in the White House
and charged, in a strangely worded exec-
utive order, with the duty of "stabilizing"
our economy? The same hopeful cries
greeted that action. Byrnes supposedly
was to be the keeper-clean-of-the-Presi-
dent's-desk, the bottleneck-breaker, the
supreme-settler-of-squabbles and the czar
of czars. Obviously that wasn't true at
all. His former job was something else,
and it is still important enough to pull
from a high court another judge, Fred M.
Vinson, who will continue the stabilizing
job.

A not very helpful sign is the emphasis
in the new order on "trouble-shooting."
The head of a big administrative machine,
of course, must spend plenty of time in
settling disputes. But he exercises this
function at the same moment that he
directs and shapes the direction of ad-
ministration. Trouble-shooting is not a
function separate and apart from direct-
ing administration, although Mr. Roose-
velt has always assumed that it is.

SOME EXPLAINING TO DO
Way back, 10 years ago, Louie Howe
was assigned that job. But friction is
never removed that way. To have a
friendly, intelligent person tell two ear-
nest workers who are getting in each
other's hair that no differences exist is
futile. The conflict will continue until the
friction is removed by a genuinely higher
authority.
That higher authority still remains
where it must remain-with the Presi-
dent. Before this order appeared, there
was talk that Mr. Byrnes was being made
ready for a mysterious Washington limbo
called "The Doghouse." This newest
order certainly does not look, on the sur-
face, like that. Unless, and there is evi-
dence to support this, giving a man what
appears to be plenary power is moving
him farther along the road to frustration.
Time will tell.
It looks, however, as if the "doghouse"
interpretation can be applied to Mr. Nel-
son's new situation. Up to now, despite
all sorts of evidence that Nelson's powers
were grossly exaggerated, he has had one
unquestioned privilege, which was direct
responsibility to the President and no one
else. Clearly, he now has a boss between
him and the President.
Perhaps the entire explanation of the
new order is simply that. It will be dif-
ficult to convince Mr. Nelson that such is
not the case. Even Mr. Byrnes, with his
unparalleled persuasiveness, will have
trouble achieving that.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate