Ironic Contrast
on Stabilization
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Since the Treasury's new plan for an
International stabilization of currencies
has already recalled the tragic failure of
an effort to do just that at the London
Conference 10 years ago, it may be prof-
itable to recite what happened then.
There is ironic contrast between these
events and the present situation.
Contrary to the impression generally
held, it was not Mr. Roosevelt's so-called
"bombshell" message of July 3, 1933, that
sunk the. conference. The sinking had
already been assured by a Presidential
message received in London on July 1,
1933-a message whose text, curiously,
does not appear in the President's pub-
lished papers.
The "bombshell" message of July 3 was
simply in the nature of a mopping-up
process. The nations which had staked
their hopes on the gold declaration nego-
tiated a few days before regarded the
July 3 message as adding insult to in-
jury. But those of us who knew the con-
tents of both the innocuous gold declara-
tion and the. President's cable rejecting
it had given up hope on July 1.
THE FACTS RECITED
Let's look at the facts calmly now that
10 years have passed. As early as April,
1933, England, France and the other gold
countries stopped clamoring. for a reduc-
tion in their debts and made their appeal
for an agreement to stabilize currencies
on some ratio as between the dollar,
pound and franc. Their efforts to secure
such an agreement continued into the
early days of the conference in June.
Representatives of the Federal Reserve
System, the Treasury and the American
delegation to the conference conferred
with the British and the French on pos-
sible bases of stabilization. All their pro-
posals were rejected by the President,
When, acting as the President's liaison
man, I arrived at London in late June,
I found that the Treasury representative,
the English, and the representatives of
the gold countries had agreed upon a
declaration not to stabilize at once, but
"as quickly as practicable," and to recog-
nize that an ultimate return to gold was
desirable, while leaving each nation free
to decide for itself when it would return
to gold and at what ratio it would sta-
bilize its currency. This seemed, and was,
perfectly innocuous.
It consisted largely of a rephrasing of
one of the "instructions" given to our
delegation by Mr. Roosevelt before the
delegation sailed from the United States
-a statement of policy which had been
introduced into the conference as a reso-
lution on June 10, 1933, by the American
delegation. That harmless declaration,
which, as Prime Minister MacDonald pri-
vately remarked, would have dispelled
the panic of money speculation then
threatening Europe without in the slight-
est tying American hands, I agreed to
transmit to the President for his con-
sideration.
ADVICE REJECTED
Mr. Woodin, our Secretary of the
Treasury, and practically every other re-
sponsible adviser to our government,
urged that the President approve it. To
the astonishment of every informed Amer-
Ican, the President rejected the advice
and the agreement. The foreign repre-
sentatives were thus denied the privilege
of subscribing to Mr. Roosevelt's own
previously expressed views. Consterna-
tion and bewilderment reigned in Lon-
don. Upon a conference thus stricken,
the irritable July 3 message fell as a sort
of anticlimax.
The fact is that if the declaration had
been accepted first, the scolding of July
3 might not have had the effect it did.
Although the scolding was pretty offen-
sively phrased, some of it made a good
deal of sense. But the conference was
doomed on July 1. It died a lingering
death over a period of nearly four weeks,
when it recessed.
The present Treasury proposal would
grant everything the 1933 declaration did
-and more. There will and should be de-
bate about the form and organization of
the new international monetary control.
The question will arise about the way in
which this nation, which has gold money
and credit, will share its power. But if
anything that happened in 1033 can teach
1943, it ought to be that the effective
stabilization of the world's monetary sys-
tems will largely depend upon the sta-
bility of our statesmanship.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.