O.W.I. Survey
Dangerous Affair
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The action of the O.W.I. in undertaking
for "another government agency con-
nected with the military establishment" a
survey of opinion among Americans of
Polish origin is likely to open the 1944
political book at a very ugly chapter.
This is true however innocent the O.W.I.
may have been in undertaking the assign-
ment or however independent and scien-
tific the survey may be. No such inquiry
should be undertaken by any government
agency.
The other day this column suggested
that it would be deplorable if the opin-
ions of certain national groups within the
United States with strong political power
were permitted to influence our relations
with Russia in the settlement of postwar
problems. When that was written, just
such a possibility as the present survey
was in mind. For, long acquaintance with
the influence of national groups in the
United States has made it apparent for a
considerable time that the next election
may be decided by the loyalties of some
voters in American cities to the countries
of origin, rather than the country of adop-
tion. Such an outcome, it need hardly be
added, would be a grievous blow to the
integrity of this nation.
PARALLEL IN 1918
This is not a new situation. An almost
exact parallel existed in the period be-
tween the armistice in 1918 and the elec-
tion in 1920. The underside of politics
fairly seethed then with shifting party
allegiances among nationalistic groups in
this country. Voters were given to one
side or the other in accordance with
what the home countries of the foreign-
born were getting out of the peace con-
ference.
Some of us who were laboring in those
days to transfer the affections and loyalty
of the foreign-born to this country found
our efforts constantly frustrated by the
unscrupulous activities of politicians who
sought the votes of the foreign-born in
prejudiced blocs. The tragedy was that
local politicians were working night and
day to make this country what Theodore
Roosevelt called "a polyglot boarding-
house."
Some time during that period, because
of some experience with the subject, I
participated in a series of Americanization
studies under the auspices of the Carnegie
Corporation. My research revealed that
in cities with a large foreign-born popu-
lation a number of national groups had
shown a volatile and easily manipulated
tendency to shift party allegiance in line
with their original national loyalties in
Europe.
MARKED AMONG POLES
This, I say without prejudice, was very
marked among voters of Polish origin.
In Cleveland, for example, it was shown
that between 1913, before the war began,
and 1915 a great majority of that group
suddenly shifted from one party to the
other for no apparent reason except a
false charge made just before election,
that one of the candidates for Mayor was
"pro-German." Many similar pieces of evi-
dence were uncovered. This material, in
part, is contained in an almost forgotten
book, "Americans by Choice," by John
Palmer Gavit.
A subsequent close observation of the
campaign of 1920 revealed that the most
outrageous undercover appeals were made
to Old World prejudice. A study of the
municipal election in 1923 in Cleveland,
which I made later, disclosed that the
prejudices thus aroused were still alive.
Lest there be any misunderstanding, let
it be said that in all these studies I found
no evidence of such prejudiced voting
among the Jewish population.
Whoever, even with the most innocent
purposes, lets this horrid genie out of the
bottle this time has a lot to answer for.
Whoever increases a consciousness of bloc
solidarity among the foreign-born is work-
ing against the interests of the United
States.
Novelty in This
Book on Fascists
John Roy Carlson's book, "Under Cov-
er," deals with Fascist organizations in
the United States with a good deal of
novelty. The novelty consists in the fact
that the author seems to have been gen-
uinely careful with his facts. The reader
does not get the impression that there is
exaggeration for effect—at least, as re-
gards the bulk of the material. Mistakes
have been made; the author has taken
some things on hearsay and his informa-
tion on California conditions is partly col-
ored by the ridiculous report of the La
Follette committee. Where he confines
himself to personal observation, which he
does for the most part, what he says has
the ring of truth.
"Under Cover," published by Dutton,
has rightly received a good deal of atten-
tion; as exposure books go, this seems the
best to date. It is time somebody did an
equally good job on the Communists.
Carlson says he would like to, but has
found himself unable to penetrate the
inner circles of their organizations. It is
probably more difficult; the Reds are more
accustomed to working underground and
undoubtedly are more careful. The Fas-
cists seem to have left themselves wide
open.
E. C. K.
When Will It?
San Francisco Chronicle
From dark hints dropped by the ra-
tioners, the economic planners and such,
one now gathers that the duration won't
be over when the war is.