British Steal
March on U.S.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
With the Keynes proposal it becomes
obvious that the British government is
in process of setting up a series of affirmative
propositions on every important phase of the
ultimate postwar settlement. In so doing it is
employing the precise technique of 1918 which
consisted first of agreeing with the broad
indefinite ideals largely formulated by the
United States and then of filling in details
with realistic working formulas. And in so
doing it has clearly stolen a march on us.
First we had the Beveridge plan offered as a
plan for England alone but, as Americans have
seen, vastly influential with at least one of the
United Nations other than Great Britain. Next
we had the Churchill elaboration of the four-year
plan for British domestic economy. Then came
the Churchill plan for a regional organization
of the world. Finally we have the Keynes
proposal for an international currency.
THE ADVANTAGE
The advantage which comes to the member of a
group of consultants who has a concrete
proposition to offer is plain enough. It is known
to everyone who has ever entered any sort of a
conference or meeting. The classic example is
the American Constitutional Convention of 1787,
when the exceedingly able and resourceful
Virginia delegation presented the "Virginia," or
"Randolph," plan at the outset, the convention
thereafter consisting entirely of discussions
centering in that plan. All the rest could do was
to discuss, modify and vainly attempt to
substitute other plans.
This is not to intimate that the series of recent
British proposals will prevail. But it is to suggest
that, since the initial advantage is now theirs, we
will do well to examine and criticize their
proposals with intelligence and vigor.
Take, for example, the Keynes plan. It bursts
upon those in the United States who know most
about money with an initial disadvantage. The
name Keynes is identified primarily with the
advocacy of cheap money and huge government
expenditures. The economic ideas of New
Dealism are largely attributed to his great
influence upon Washington economists. But the
new Keynes plan, which, we are told in
dispatches from London, will soon be issued as a
British white book "for discussion," dates much
farther back in time than the American New
Deal. It must be considered in light of the long
career of John Maynard Keynes.
Lord Keynes disagreed violently with the peace of
1919. In many respects his objections proved
sound during the '20's. Then followed, in 1930,
his monumental "treatise on money." Then in
1933 an American delegate to the London
Conference asked this present writer for some
sort of key to the President's thinking on
international currency, he recommended the last
chapter in the Keynes "treatise," and the delegate
popped the book into his bag for reading on the
voyage.
EARLY PLAN GIVEN UP
Keynes in 1930 recommended an approach to an
international standard of value based upon
commodity prices. But by the time the London
Conference met he had given up any such precise
plan. At the conference itself, he apparently had
little influence on the British government in
which MacDonald was Prime Minister and
Neville Chamberlain was Chancellor of the
Exchequer. They regarded him as somewhat
unstable and unorthodox. He had, however, a
definite influence upon the dominions and the
Scandinavian countries, and when, after the
President's message had given the conference a
mortal blow, an attempt was made by some
Americans to get a milder statement of the
President's views before the conference, Keynes
was summoned to help in the preparation of such
a statement.
That statement, approved by the President, was
submitted to the conference on July 5, 1933. It
was much more generally understood and
approved than his "bombshell" statement. In
fact, Prime Minister MacDonald expressed the
opinion that had it been submitted by the
President instead of his "bombshell" message, the
conference might have been saved.
A reading of that document is an interesting
corollary to the current Keynes plan. Its salient
sentences were "The part which gold and silver
should play as reserve monies after price
adjustment has been secured would seem a
further subject suitable for consideration by the
conference. I would link with this the problems
of exchanges and of commercial and tariff
policies, with a view to the avoidance of
unbalanced debtor and creditor positions between
nations which have been so fruitful a 'cause of the
present evils."
That the Keynes plan suggests the surrender of
important sovereign powers is unquestionable. But
that it will be repugnant to official views in
Washington is altogether doubtful. In fact, the
first great domestic issue in this country respecting
the peace to follow this war will become apparent
when the Keynes plan is laid beside the still secret
"plan" of Harry D. White of the Treasury, which
our planners are getting ready for us now.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
A Rousing Battle Cry
Philadelphia Inquirer
No wonder the Italians were scared when American
raiders in Tunisia cried, "Hi, yo, Silver!" They
probably thought those western Senators were on the
warpath again.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.