The Press Gag
and Its Dangers
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The administration has now fallen back
on its second line of defense in order to,
make its decision about barring the press
from the Hot Springs Food Conference
palatable to the people of the United
States. It is permitting pet correspond-
ents to give its excuses for this shock-
ing and dangerous gagging of our press.
The justifications these pets offer us can
be knocked to pieces by any practicing
newspaperman. But more than that they
point to a terrible lesson the administration
and the country as a whole will have to learn
from the administration's stubborn,
wrong-headed persistence in its course.
First and most flimsy of the excuses
for barring the press at Hot Springs is
the statement that the press is not present
when Churchill, Roosevelt et al., meet.
The answer is that Messrs. Roosevelt
and Churchill are not a miscellaneous
group of delegates from some nations,
many of them practiced in the deceit of
Old-World diplomacy, leaking at all times
what they want to be known to stooge
journalists of their own nationalities.
PUBLIC BUSINESS
The second alibi is that an international
conference is not a legislative body
like Congress. It must reach unanimous
agreement or fail. But the demand for
publicity is not made by the press on the
ground that a conference is a legislative
body. It is demanded on the ground
that a conference is public business. An
international conference arrives at its
decisions by discussions and compromise.
The public is obviously entitled to know
what has been asked and what has been
granted.
Then comes a third, a much more
plausible excuse. The administration, we
are told, is experimenting to see how
much press coverage at international
conferences is in “the larger public interest.”
But this is a late date for our public
servants to be learning how to conduct
international conferences. There have been
international conferences for thousands,
not hundreds, of years. It seems strange
now to close the doors and start over,
for all the bitter lessons of history teach
us that more good comes from publicity
than secrecy.
The fourth excuse is that when the
conference is over the results will be
announced. But this is to say that public
opinion is entitled to no voice in public
business. It is to be told, not consulted.
The administration wholly embraces a
doctrine of authoritarianism as old as time.
INADEQUATE SOURCE
Finally, there is the apologetic argument
that the press will be allowed to see the
press officer of the State Department who
will be an adequate source. But no single
press officer can know enough to be an
adequate source for a sophisticated press or
a literate public. Access by the press to
public officials is a right established by
generations of effort. A primary duty of a
public official is to meet the press. He cannot
perform this by proxy.
Anyone who has seen an international
conference at work knows that the
American press is the best protection that
American official delegates can have. This
writer was one of those who served the
government officially at the London
Conference in 1933. Like the representatives
of every other country we kept daily contact
with our friends in journalism. If we had
refused to do so we would have compelled
the American public to learn what was going
on from the press of other countries. And all
such accounts would have been colored to suit
the governments in those countries. The
American press was not something to be
endured; it was a necessary source of support.
For news abhors a vacuum. If official
sources of news are blocked the press will
get news elsewhere—from the foreign press
representatives, from gossip, and from
imagination. It may be a terrible lesson,
but we shall learn from this “experiment” in
tampering with the functions of a free press
just how alarming and injurious to public
morale this false flow of news will be. It is
to be hoped that the lesson will impress
itself even upon the people in the administration
responsible for this Hot Springs gag.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Plain Words
A Letter to the New York Times
If the taxes of 1943 are collected in 1943
and the taxes of 1942 forgiven, the United
States Treasury will lose nothing until
the day of judgment, and at that date no
one will give a damn.
JAMES W. GERARD.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.