Lewis' Return
to the Fold
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The return of Mr. Lewis and his miners
to the doorstep of Mr. Green suggests the
visit of Caesar to Cicero. Henry J. Has-
kell, in his absorbing book, "This Was
Cicero," tells us of that visit. Caesar
brought along 2000 soldiers. It wasn't a
visit. It was an occupation.
The announcement came as no news to
those in the confidence of Mr. Lewis.
But, like most of the Lewis moves, it was
skillfully timed. For one thing, it enables
Mr. Lewis to shroud the position
from which he must ultimately withdraw
in his present controversy with the government
with a thick smoke screen of
speculation about what he is up to. For
another, it probably means the amicable
retirement of Mr. William Green before
many months.
A NEW PRESIDENT?
Time plucks at Green's sleeve. He was
70 in March. Does Lewis see him as
president emeritus of the dominant labor
organization with full salary? Doubtless
what Lewis has in mind is the presidency
of the A.F.L., not for himself, but for a
friendly substitute. In any case, with
Hutcheson of the carpenters and several
other old-timers around, the Lewis return
is sure to be no unhappy event.
What follows? With the A.F.L. overwhelmingly
dominant in numbers and
probable influence again, the law of Newton
may operate on the smaller C.I.O.,
just as it operated on the planets when
the universe was young. Maybe the
Automobile Workers' Union will fly off
and join the bigger body, the A.F.L.
Certainly the guess may be ventured
that there would be no support of the
fourth term from the A.F.L. in 1944. The
urge to go home is in the air, and the
Republican party is home for Lewis,
Hutcheson and others in the A.F.L. They
never really believed in the sorcery of
collectivism anyhow. They don't want
to worry about stockholders, reconversions
and renegotiations. They love a fat
industry at the same moment that they
hurl epithets at it. Let the bloodsuckers,
profitmongers and labor-crushers run
industry. The fatter the victim the better
the picking.
These men do not itch for the headaches
of government. Even a partnership
with government has been unhappy.
Lewis takes no pleasure in recalling the
days when Mr. Roosevelt called him
"John," and kept the calendar open for
his visits. He prefers a calculated irresponsibility.
And it must be admitted
that he has played at that game with
impish cleverness.
WHITHER AWAY?
There can be no doubt now that Lewis
has bested the O.P.A. and the N.W.L.B.
at every turn to date. After showing the
government's policy on price control to
be disgracefully timid, he provoked the
desperately opportunistic move of the
rollback on prices. As for the N.W.L.B.,
in less than two months Lewis has succeeded,
first, in frightening the White
House into its hold-the-line order, and
then in frightening the White House into
backing away from that order by permitting
the upward adjustment of "inequitable"
wages.
In the course of this violent tackling, the
N.W.L.B. came as close to dissolution as
any government agency can come and
continue to live. And it is by no means
yet certain that it will survive the further
pummeling the contemptuously defiant
Lewis may have in store for it.
Clearly the administration is no nearer
getting a contract to mine coal signed—
which is the crux of the matter—than it
was six weeks ago.
From his new position in the A.F.L., if
and when he has moved in his household
goods, Lewis will be an even more formidable
power in national affairs. Now,
like the Flying Dutchman, he wants to
go home. And who can keep such a wanderer
away?
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.