Mr. Willkie
and Primaries
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Wendell L. Willkie's decision
not to compete with Gov. Earl
Warren in the California Presidential preference primary is
pretty good evidence that his
group has made another and
larger decision. That is the decision to avoid contests in most
of the States which permit voters to express their Presidential
preferences.
This brings to view the outstanding weakness in Mr. Will-
kie's candidacy—a weakness, let it be added, for which he is not
personally to blame. It is the ironic outcome of a so-called reform which died in infancy 30-
odd years before Mr. Willkie cast his first vote and when Mr.
Dewey was in grammar school.
IN ONLY 12 STATES
The direct Presidential primary was viewed in those days
as a great and inevitable reform. People thought it would be
adopted in all the States. Enthusiasts for it said that never
after 1912 would there be another old-fashioned convention. The
sovereign party voters would decide everything beforehand. But
the crusade died in its tracks. Only one-fourth of the States
adopted the plan, and that's where we stand now.
The fate which has overtaken Mr. Willkie is that in most of
those 12 States in which voters express preferences he hasn't a
chance. And they are big States, too.
Friends of Mr. Willkie indicate he will run only in Wisconsin, Nebraska and Oregon, which
keeps him out of nine preference States with an aggregate delegate strength of more than 300
votes. It is, apparently, not certain about his entering New
Hampshire, with 11 more.
His friends suggest he may enter Pennsylvania on the
chance of taking a few delegates away from the unfriendly organization there. But since the decision has been made to by-pass
New York, Ohio, Illinois and California, Willkie has apparently reconciled himself to a net
vote from the primary States of not more than 100 votes.
A TERRIFIC TASK
That is a long way from the 500-odd needed to win on the
first ballot.
The chief claim of his supporters is that while Mr. Willkie is unpopular with the organization, he is popular with rank
and-file Republican voters. But he cannot bring this alleged
popularity to bear upon the task of getting the essential delegates. Archimedes is alleged to have
said, "Give me a place to stand and I will move the earth." But
Archimedes had no place to stand. Mr. Willkie must go
among the lowly party chieftains to get the 400 additional votes
he needs. And, considering the impressions that those politicians have gained of Mr. Will-
kie's opinion of them, this will be a labor of superhuman proportions.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Long List
Kansas City Star
Gov. Warren of California says he is not a candidate for the
G.O.P. nomination next year. The list lengthens but somehow
a way will be found.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.