Debits and Credits
in Taking Italy
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
What, if Italy drops out, will he the
economic consequences to the United
States, to Italy, and to Southeastern
Europe? That is, what will they be if
Italy does not collapse into the sort of
Communist revolution at which the ini-
tial O.W.I, broadcasts seemed to aim, or
if Hitler does not seize a part of Italy as
a battleground?
For if either of these things happens,
the collapse of Fascism will be a very
questionable asset to us. No doubt that
is what concerned Churchill and Roose-
velt so deeply in their speeches. When
the Italian tooth is removed, it should
obviously be a clean-cut job, with no
breaks or slips. But, assuming that the
capítulation is wholesale; what will be
the credits and the debits?
SOME OF THE DEBITS
Take coal for a start. Germany has
been supplying Italy's needs, formerly
largely filled by Great Britain. The need
will not be so great with war production
stopped, but it will have to be met. It is
typical of the methodical way in which
Hitler has discounted the loss of his ally
that Germany, even before the fall of
Mussolini, had promised Sweden for 1944
double its coal allotment for 1913.
Also on our debit side is food. The
world-feeders would have us believe that
countries such as Italy must be fed by us
from fruit to nuts. But the Italian prob-
lem should be very limited and special,
both as to amount and time. Italy's wheat
imports came largely from Hungary and
America before the war. During the war,
Hungary continued its contribution, with
the difference made up by Germany and
North Africa. The initial needs for Amer-
ican help after Italy capitulates may be
considerable. But they should, before
long, level off to what intelligent Eu-
ropeans call "propaganda feeding," which
consists of our shouting at the right hand
everything that the left hand is doing.
On the credit side of the United Nations'
ledger are some sizable items. With the
Italian navy in our hands, the sea lanes
of the Mediterranean will be almost
wholly open. The Italian merchant ma-
rine will fall into our hands. This is esti-
mated at about 3,500,000 tons. It should
not only supply Italy's needs for a revival
of productive trade but leave a consider-
able margin for the United Nations' mill-
tary needs. There would be abundant
local labor for the wharves and shipyards
-a very important asset in an invasion
effort. Italy could almost immediately
start exporting a variety of products that
have been going to Germany and her
satellites. These would include rayon,
sulphur, mercury, fruits, olive oil and
many lesser items.
OTHER ADVANTAGES
A great demobilized army would pro-
vide sufficient man power to work in re-
construction in what remains of the Itai-
ian industrial plant. Certain kinds of
military production could be almost imme-
diately available. There is abundant
water power in Italy already harnessed
to a very considerable and rather mod-
ern hydroelectric plant.
In short, the capture of Italy intact will
provide an advanced base of the greatest
significance in any invasion, especially an
invasion into the Balkans. Italy should
also be less of a liability than has gener-
ally been assumed. Her capacities for
self-support are by no means inconsider-
able, and her economic value in cracking
up German power in the satellite coun-
tries may well be decisive.
All of which suggests the prime im-
portance of getting Italy intact, and as
soon as possible.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
No Use!
Richmond News Leader
We are sending out propaganda, but
alas! anybody who would be influenced
by it would be too dumb to read.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.