Green's Fears
for the Germans
BY RAYMOND MOLEX
William Green's statement a few days
ago against the "enslavement" of German
labor after the war recalls the objection
of French unions after the last war to
the use of Germans in rebuilding France.
The French unions had their way then;
money reparations were imposed and
Germany simply did not pay.
Green is, no doubt, disturbed by Intl.
mations coming from Russia that Stalin
is not interested in money from Ger-
many and that he will insist upon direct
labor by Germans over a period of years
to repair the damage done to Russia by
German armies. Stalin will doubtless re-
main unimpressed by the Green objec-
tion, if, perchance, he hears it at all.

FIGURES ARE HIGH
The figures the Russians are using in
their calculations are high. Some weeks
ago Prof. Eugene Varga, who has been
very important in the Stalin regime for
more than 20 years, spoke of reparations
in man power and suggested that 10,-
000,000 Germans labor in Russia for 10
years. Since then, other European re-
ports have repeated this figure. It is a
figure that obviously admits of some bar-
gaining when the United Nations get
down to the business of peace. But that
Stalin will insist upon this sort of repara-
tion is fairly sure, because the Russian
economic system takes little stock in
"capitalist" reparations.
Russian values are calculated in terms
of work. Unemployment is no factor in
their plans. Nor are there any Russian
William Greens to object to the importa-
tion of foreign labor into the Soviet.
Work, no matter whose hands are used,
makes Russia rich and strong, and work
will be needed on a tremendous scale.
The Green objection, like that of the
French unions 24 years ago, springs from
fears of heavy imports of goods. But
goods or labor will be all that Germany
can give, unless the farce of money
reparations is to be performed all over
again. The Green fear is based upon the
old labor notion that there is only about
so much work to be done in the world
and that to require Germans to repair
the industrial plant of Russia is to throw
Russians and Americans out of jobs.

CHINESE MAY FOLLOW
Maybe Chiang Kai-shek will get the
Stalin idea and insist upon Japanese la-
bor in rebuilding China.
In the event that the idea of forced
labor is made a part of the peace plans,
the details can be easily worked out so
as to avoid the idea of "enslavement."
The Germans and Japanese may be per-
mitted to draft the workers needed for
these tours of duty, small payments for
work performed can be made to the
workers and some form of special re-
ward can be provided when the workers
return to their own countries. This serv-
ice will offer the individual German or
Jap a definite improvement over milt-
ary service in foreign conquest. Lives
can be made safe and health protected.
The major factor in the salvation of
Europe and Asia must, of necessity, be
work—work everywhere to the end that
the vast destruction of wealth in this
unparalleled war may be restored. There
can be no short hours and bonuses for
overtime in restoring shattered conti-
nents. There can be no subsidies for not
planting and no featherbed labor rules
for a good many years in the countries
which have felt the impact of this war.
And Mr. Green had better make the best
of it.
Copyright, 1945. *Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate*

Lawyer's Heaven
Indianapolis News
The average American is inclined to
regard the complaints of businessmen
about governmental interference as exag-
gerated. But the average American
would be shocked if he had to manage
a business these days. He would quickly
discover that American enterprise has be-
come a legalistic paradise.
Hundreds of orders were issued this
last week, as usual. There was one on
malted grains. W.P.B. revoked Order
M-288, relating to malted grains and malt
syrup, because it was superseded by Or-
der No. 66 of the Food Distribution Ad-
ministration. Miss Jones, call the lawyer.
Then there was one on C.M.P., what-
ever that means. The W.P.B. announced
simply that use of the quarterly identi-
fication symbol in connection with the
placement of orders under C.M.P. pro-
cedure has been clarified through the
issue of Interpretation 14 of C.M.P. Regu-
lation 1. Tell him to hurry, Miss Jones.
Those are just samples. There were
changes in P.R.C.; P.O.S-C; in
Conservation T-1; in M.P.R. and
in Ration Order 13; among other things.
Where's that lawyer?

Happy Idea
Philadelphia Inquirer
The vegetarian's Christmas
problem is solved. He can give away his
meat coupons.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.