Social Security
of Two Kinds
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A comparison of the British Beveridge
Plan, and Mr. Churchill's comments about
it, with our own National Resources
Planning Board program reveals vast
differences in viewpoint-differences that
make the grandiose American scheme resemble
one of the "fairy tales" which Mr.
Churchill said he was resolved not to tell
the public.
First, Mr. Churchill's frankness was
outstanding. He indulged in no rash
promises. Nothing, he said, "would be
easier for me than to get the immediate
response of cheap cheers and glowing
leading articles." But he was determined
to "drive home the point made in the
Beveridge report itself, that the success of
any plan of social security depends upon
the extent to which the national income
is maintained in postwar Britain-in short,
upon the extent to which there is anything
to tax.
This important condition, which should
be an elementary consideration, is ignored
by the Resources Planning Board. There
is admission that if its recommended new
economy with its "mixed corporations"
does not produce the national income expected,
the expansion of social security
cannot be borne. Like much New Deal
reasoning these days, the Planning Board
program simply assumes a continuing
reservoir of taxable income regardless of
what measures government may take to
make such income impossible.
FUNDAMENTAL IGNORED
In their whole approach to the question
of financial practicability, in fact, the two
plans are miles apart. Beveridge laid out
the costs of his plan. The Resources Planning
Board did nothing of the kind.
Churchill and Beveridge both related
their proposals to the necessity of keeping
prices reasonably level-Churchill as a national
obligation, Beveridge as a statistical
assumption. The Planning Board ignores
that fundamental.
Beveridge set up a tentative list of contributions,
£351,000,000 to come from the
national exchequer and the local rates in
1945; £192,000,000 from insured persons,
and £132,000,000 from employers. And
Churchill told the nation that while taxes
could not be reduced to their prewar level,
"we do not intend to shape our plans or
levy taxation in a way which by removing
personal incentive would destroy
initiative and enterprise."
The Planning Board offers no budget of
contributions. But it does argue in a general
way against relying chiefly on employee wage
deductions. The burden of the
two sections on financing the plan is that
the money will have to come in the main
from the Federal government. As for types
of taxes, the board strongly opposes sales
and consumption taxes on the classes the
plan is intended to benefit. It has one
sentence on the sort of taxes it does approve—"we
recommend that a proportion
of the fund needed for social insurance
programs should be derived from general
tax revenues collected on a progressive
basis."
WONDERFUL WORD!
Note the word "progressive." In the
general summary put out separately from
the Planning Board's six-pound report on
social security, somebody thought to call
the taxes "progressive (graduated) taxes."
This is as close as the board comes to
saying it wants the money collected from
the type of taxes which rise faster in
rate than the income. A wonderful word,
"progressive."
Churchill's stout sentences about the
importance of thrift and the sacredness
of savings bear repeating. "We must beware
of trying to build a society in which
nobody counts for anything except the
politician or an official. A society where
enterprise gains no reward and thrift no
privileges," he said. "These savings of the
nation arising from the thrift . . . are
sacred and it is the duty of the state to redeem
its faith in an equal degree of value."
Such sentiments have no place in the
New Deal philosophy. Our Washington
economists have been telling us these
many years that we have too much saving
already.
Finally, the Churchill view of the future
is one of optimism. The Planning Board,
which consigns 10 per cent of the American
population to dependency, is pessimistic. In
Britain, we see a willingness
to consider costs along with benefits, an
assumption that benefits rest primarily
upon the restoration of trade and industry
and the promise to protect private
savings.
Copyright 1943 Chicago Journal of Commerce—
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.