The Postwar Highway Question
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A suggestion in this column three weeks
ago about the possibility of a revival by
the administration of transcontinental
highway building as a postwar project
has provoked considerable correspondence
for and against the idea. The column
merely suggested that the idea of new
super-highways from coast to coast and
from north to south was an old New Deal
idea, much talked about 10 years back,
that in its revived form it has grown to
two east-west highways and three or four
north-south highways, and that the notion
now threatens to become a major political
issue. All of which is true.
There was no disposition here to minimize
the importance of highway construction
as a postwar project. But the suggestion
of new super-highways of continental
length does in fact run directly counter
to the judgment of sound planners, even
in the administration itself.
ADVERSE REPORT
In 1938, Congress directed the chief of
the Bureau of Public Roads to inquire
into the feasibility of building not over
three east-west and not over three north-
south transcontinental highways, and into
the practicability of collecting tolls on
such roads. The Bureau of Public Roads
subsequently became the Public Roads Administration and reported to the President in 1939, as follows:
"Facts developed by the highway planning surveys definitely and conclusively
show that there is no fully transcontinental travel, none even of semicontinental
range, that could be accumulated in sufficient amount on any one or several highways traversing the breadth of the country either to justify the construction, or to any considerable extent determine, the character or location of such a highway or highways."
The report further made the point that
money could much more profitably be
spent to modernize and improve existing
main highways with a number of new interregional highways.
THE REAL NEEDS
It is recognized by everyone that highway
construction is one of the wisest means
of stimulating employment, and also of
putting life into certain heavy industries
in periods of depression. But the issues
that Congress should determine well in
advance are, first, whether the recommendation of the Public Roads Administration against new transcontinental highways is still valid; second, whether construction work should be done directly by government or by contract; and third, whether the Federal government should take over the lion's share of future highway construction work or provide that most of it be done through grants to the States.
All these points should be determined on
the basis of sound nonpolitical principles
and not colorful prospects of transcontinental highways or socialistic dreams of making the administration the major, not to say the sole, patron of full employment.
An exceedingly useful study of this whole
question is a study by Charles M. Upham
of the American Road Builders' Association on the "Postwar Highway Program."
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.