Perhaps Stalin
Is No Enigma
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is to be hoped that Mr. Eden is giving our Washington people responsible for international policy some realistic hints about Russian affairs. For plainly it is high time to condition American opinion against a serious postwar disillusionment.
That such disillusionment may come is entirely the result of the happy dreams induced by our leaders of opinion from the President down. Those dreams are of a wholly new sort of peace structure after this war—a structure at once international-democratic and completely satisfying the nationalistic aspirations of both large and small states alike. Unfortunately our more flighty global thinkers have not been in the least restrained by the fact that this concept is self-contradictory. But wiser people now insist that Americans should not be egged on into riding for a fall.
SIMPLE AIMS?
The evidence has been steadily accumulating over the past two months that Russia’s postwar aims are vastly more simple than we have been led to believe, that Stalin is no enigma and that a clear understanding of him would yield us much comfort.
Most recent of these bits of evidence is Anthony Eden’s frank statement in Washington that the Anglo-Russian treaty has placed Britain and Russia on an enduring footing of co-operation which is a most important contribution in Europe for the war and after. This amounts to a declaration that the stability of Europe is primarily the concern of Britain and Russia. Lest there be any doubt about that, the declaration is spelled out in a remarkably candid editorial published in the London Times on the day when Mr. Eden probably started on his journey. That newspaper is in no sense the voice of Downing Street, but its point of view on Russian affairs is gaining ground with the British government. The Times says not only that Russia should be permitted to arrange its own security in Eastern Europe after the war, but that the time has come for the British government to get that fact over to the United States.
It now looks as if this point of view is something to which we must accommodate ourselves. We attempted in 1919 to stabilize Eastern Europe by remote control from France. We failed miserably. For a good many years, stabilization was secured in Europe by Russia. Even then it must be remembered the western democracies feared and distrusted Russia. But Russia measurably succeeded.
BEST INTERESTS
Worth noting also is that there is at least a reasonable doubt whether Russia wants a communistic Germany, France and England. Stalin recognizes that in any Communist state, nationalism will override theoretical internationalism in an emergency. His real interests would be best served first by a cordon of small Russian-dominated Communist states between Russia and Germany. Beyond that Russia can hardly be said to covet further conquest in the west. Safety, as against Germany and France, would be achieved by some form of representative government in Germany and France which would permit a Communist minority to exercise free political rights. This would keep these potential rivals sufficiently weak to serve his immediate ends.
All of which underlines the importance of shaping our foreign policy not upon a concept of a simple world organization, but on the concept of regional co-operation. In the first region, Europe and Africa, we should have only a sympathetic interest. In the second, which is the Western Hemisphere, we should have a vital influence. In Eastern Asia and the Pacific we should have an active concern, along with China, Great Britain and Russia. This is far from isolation. It means co-operation. But it would save us from the impossible task of trying to run Europe from Washington, and, even before that, spare us the fatuous delusion that we are going to be permitted to attempt it.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.