Churchill
and His Plans
BY RAYMOND MOLET
What Winston Churchill tells the American people must be appraised on the background of his fundamental character and habits of mind. Clearly, we could not expect him or anyone else to reveal the momentous plan that brought him here. But it is well to remember always his considered and often repeated judgment that the last war would have been greatly shortened if his Gallipoll expedition had been properly backed.
Those who know Churchill well stress the simplicity of his mind, which is reflected in his oratory. Details bore him. Though he is a former Chancellor of the Exchequer, he is not deeply interested in the complexities of finance. He has little time for elaborate postwar schemes. His own story of his boyhood tells how little he bothered with mathematics and how much he loved literature and military history. And his intimates all testify to his essentially European outlook. He well knows the difficulties of stabilizing Europe, but he has an almost passionate concern with the European contributions to civilization.
GALLIPOLI ADVENTURE
All this was implicit in his March speech, which his friends now interpret for us. Churchill is apparently willing to go beyond traditional British policy by accepting limitations on British independence through participation in a council of Europe. In that council he sees Britain and Russia as senior members, with confederations of smaller states between the two nations.
At this stage of affairs, it is important to bear in mind that it has long been Churchill's belief that the Gallipoli adventures in the last war failed only because it was "starved and crippled at every stage by the continued opposition of the French and British high commands in France." After that failure, he wrote in "The World in Crisis," the war fell back into the stalemate of the western front, cost millions of lives, lost Russia to the Allies and "darkened the world for our children's children."
CONVINCING EVIDENCE?
Now, in 1943, the West may well be at the beginning of such a stalemate, with bristling German defenses at the Channel and the North Sea facing an impregnable England. It should not be surprising if Churchill recalls once more his thesis that the way to the heart of Germany is through the Balkans. Turkey could shorten the war by months and save a million American and British lives. Turkey wants to sit at the peace table. Turkey is confronted by an opportunity to win much with less risk than any one of the United Nations faced when it entered the war.
It scarcely needs saying that men of imagination sometimes depart not only from orthodoxy, but even from their own former habits of thought and action. So the 1915 Churchill strategy of attack-through-Turkey may not be in the Churchill policy in 1943. But the conditions pointing to Bulgaria as the softest spot in 1943 are even more compelling than they were 28 years ago. Insofar as the great decision will be influenced by Churchill, then, the evidence is pretty convincing.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.