What Future
for War Plants?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Unless the war has taught the people
around Mr. Roosevelt a lot about industry,
their advice about the future use of war
plants will be bad. For some of those
very advisers once prompted him to make
this extremely unwise remark: "Our in-
dustrial plant is built; the problem just
now is whether under existing conditions
it is not overbuilt." The advisers who
believed that a few years ago won't give
her a book for Christmas because she
"already has a book."
There's a lot of government money in
war plants. The official estimate is $20,-
000,000,000. There will be plenty of cam-
paign oratory about this great investment
and lots of talk in Congress. But before
anything is done about these plants, much
educating of Congress and the adminis-
tration is needed. And the chief lesson
must be that most of the emergency plant
will be of little use to the industry of the
future, if that industry is to be a free
industry.
THE POLITICAL FACTOR
In the first place, a large part of the
plant has been built under conditions that
fly directly in the face of free enterprise.
They were located for political reasons—
that is, every State clamored for a share,
whereas under an efficient free system of
locating industries, economic, not political,
considerations are paramount. Climate, for
example, was neglected. A great new
bomber plant is located where workers
cannot hope to get decent living condi-
tions for many years, and, under normal
competitive conditions, housing expenses
would make putting a great plant there
unsound.
But more important than all else is a
factor which government is utterly un-
likely to understand. A plant under mass
production principles is built around an
idea. The brick and steel and concrete
is a shell put over the engineering lay-
out after every interior calculation has
been minutely considered. The shed over
the plant is designed to fit the production
plan. It is the glove on the hand, the use-
fulness of which is measured by the ex-
tent to which it fits without reminding
the wearer of its presence. The relative
cost of a plant building is unimportant.
If it cramps the readjustment of manu-
facturing methods within, it is usually
cheaper to scrap it.
WANTING TOO MUCH
Winston Churchill said recently, when
speaking of plans for rebuilding the
House of Commons, that "We shape our
buildings, and then they shape us." This
does not apply to modern manufacturing.
There is nothing sentimental about a plant
shed. It is a temporary device for keep-
ing the rust from impairing precious ma-
chinery. It is subject to constant change.
For government to use the ownership
of the expensive sheds built for emer-
gency purposes as a means of horning
into some quasi-socialist "partnership"
with industry would be like claiming the
hand of the lady over whom you hold
your umbrella while she gets from her
door to the bus.
It is estimated that present users have
an option on about half the government-
built war plants. It is also estimated that
considerably under half of these options
will be taken up. That leaves about three-
quarters of these plants as the problem
children. It might be just as well to con-
sign most of that remainder to the scrap
pile. For a plant is not an industry. A hat
is not a man.
Copyright, 1948, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.