What Is This
'Full Employment?'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Someday when, perhaps sooner than
most of us think, this nice orderly busi-
ness of waging war ends, we shall be
waging peace on a not very orderly home
front. But before that happens, I hope
that somebody in Washington will tell
us what the boys there mean by "full
employment." I confess that I don't know.
And just to show that even the high
exalted wizards of national socialism in
England do not know, let us scan three
sentences in a manifesto by Sir Stafford
Cripps:
"No principles of capitalism, socialism
or any other 'ism' need or must interfere
with the complete liberty of action
of the government in making certain there
is full employment. It is no use having
a plan unless there is the power to
see that it is implemented in its main
points. We want a planned, organized
economy in our country that will give
every family all the necessaries of life
and for that purpose we must give our
government the authority to use all the
controls that are strictly necessary to
achieve that end."
IT'S A CONTRADICTION
Note that in sentence No. 1 Sir Stafford
says the government must assure
"full employment," and that in sentence
No. 3 he says the country should provide
"all the necessaries of life" for "every
family."
If "full employment" means full employment,
it means something quite different
from the possession of "all the
necessaries of life." Every American personally
knows hundreds of people who
have all the necessaries of which they
are aware and yet who have never in
their lives had or wanted to have full
employment. The principle that a person
may work seasonally or casually, may
disdain time clocks, and still make a living,
is deeply embedded in the American
spirit. In fact, to many people, this freedom
from routine is as "necessary" as
food or medical care. For what is "necessary"
is a personal choice, and all the
planners and uplifters and do-gooders in
the world cannot convince Americans
that they can dictate this choice, because
to do so is to impose the national socialism
that both Sir Stafford and the
New Deal declaim they are trying to destroy.
NATIONAL SOCIALISM
Perhaps what Sir Stafford and his
American prototypes mean by "full employment"
is what I prefer to call "abundant"
employment. If so, and if they will
adopt that term, we shall all have a place
to begin. We have known "abundant employment"
in this country and we know,
also, that the surest way to get it is to
recognize the conditions of free enterprise
under which it was enjoyed.
But Sir Stafford and the New Dealers
who cry "full employment" probably will
not admit that. For that admission would
deny the national socialist promise of
Sir Stafford's statement, namely, that only
in a directed state, "in a planned, controlled
and directed economy," can full
employment come. That sort of economy
is national socialism.
So before we go tearing into the postwar
world seated on the magic carpet of
the phrase "full employment," we are
entitled to know exactly what it means.
We have not yet been told.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.