Stassen's Star
May Be Rising
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The thing that struck me most in my
last talk with Harold E. Stassen was the
deadly seriousness of that young man. It
was just before he resigned the Governor-
ship of Minnesota to enter the Navy.
There was no sham about his leaving the
big office in which he had almost a full
term to serve. Clearly, he had decided
that he had given Minnesota all the time
he could spare from a busy life. He he-
lieved in this war and wanted to be in it.
So he tackled the Navy with the same
determination that had marked every
other move in his short life, and accord-
ing to reports he was a front-row student.
Stassen's entry into the Nebraska pri-
mary for the Presidential nomination ap-
parently violates no pledge or promise. He
said when entering the Navy that he
would talk no more politics. People as-
sumed that he was out for 1944.
SMART BACKERS
People now know that they did their
assuming too soon. His supporters in
Minnesota are a smart crowd and they
will do a lot of talking and acting. Their
man has been very articulate during the
past year. He talked and made almost as
many speeches as Mr. Willkie, and very
much more to the point. His friends will
have that mass of words to fall back upon.
On every conceivable subject from visiting
nurses to precision bombing there is an
authoritative Stassen pronouncement.
What else is needed? Further speech-mak-
ing by a candidate would be simply an
invitation to pull boners.
Moreover, when newspaper space is
cramped and full of war news, speeches are
hard to get over. It is better to do things
—go around the world, stop a runaway
horse or get lost in the mountains. Acts
count publicity-wise. Stassen has acted. De-
spite a very bad lung, the aftermath of
an illness 14 years ago, he has entered
the Navy—not through the soft Washing-
ton door, but through the training school
where everybody else goes. And then to
the Fleet, not to the bureaus. Nobody can
quarrel with that. Some millions of sol-
diers' and sailors' fathers and mothers
and sons and daughters will like it.
It is not going to do any good for po-
liticos opposed to Stassen to go digging
in the dirt for something bad about him.
I don't think it is there. What you find
in his record is incredible energy and
unbelievable ambition. An excellent col-
lege and law school record—District At-
torney at 23, Governor when only nine
years out of law school, two re-elections,
speeches from ocean to ocean and honor-
able resignation at 38. This is a success
story to stump any Horatio Alger.
That Stassen can't be a powerful candi-
date while in the great blue silence of
the Navy is a silly assumption. He ran
and was elected District Attorney while
he was flat on his back with an enemy
more deadly than Japan—tuberculosis. In
the present field, with some candidacies
hardly started and other eligibles coyly
disclaiming Presidential ambitions, and
Willkie thoroughly unpopular with the
people who will be delegates, the Stassen
rocket may carry a big wallop.
ON THE MINUS SIDE
So much for the plus side. What is the
minus quality? Personally, Stassen has the
defects that go with humorlessness, in-
tense seriousness and youth. His domestic
program is based upon sound foundations
of private enterprise, economical govern-
ment and merit appointments. But the
elaboration and implementation of these
in a great national situation requires time
and thought which was denied the youth-
ful Governor. His international program
was fairly extreme interventionism. But
when I pressed him for elaboration, he
merely answered that many of his policies
were not ready for adoption yet. Their
extreme nature may not fit into a public
opinion which is getting pretty tentative
about world unity.
As to the relation of Willkie's candidacy
to Stassen's, only a guess is possible. It
is my conclusion that Stassen is no stalk-
ing horse or Willkie satellite. He calmly
anticipated the inevitable deadlock be-
tween Willkie and his enemies and no
doubt considered himself an alternative.
Possibly now the Willkie and Stassen band-
wagons will sideswipe and permit some-
one else to move ahead.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.