Caution Urged
on Peace Plans
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Nothing short of a humiliating military
defeat could be so harmful at this time
as the outbreak of a bitter Senate fight
over postwar plans. And nothing will be
more regrettable than the precipitation
of such a fight by the Ball-Hatch-Burton-
Hill resolution. For the specific resolu-
tion is both immature and premature.
A Senate fight will provoke a free-for-
all throughout the nation, with all the
cruel and irrational calling of names that
disgraced us in 1941. The terms "isola-
tionist" and "internationalist" may be
batted around again, despite the fact that
they never were descriptive of either
side. No important "Isolationist" really
believes in complete isolation, and no
sane "internationalist" believes in sur-
rendering the sovereignty of the United
States. Pearl Harbor mercifully ended
the earlier controversy. The force of
events, as Senator Vandenberg said when
the President asked for war, consigned
to future historians the question of how
war came to us,
The danger in a renewal of the angry
battle now lies in the fact that extremists
on both sides believe Pearl Harbor proved
their case. Some believe that the coming
of war proved that those who hoped to
avoid it were wrong; others, Pearl Har-
bor came because our foreign policy
swept us too close to war. Agreement
on that point is not now possible.
ACTIVE INTEREST
Nor is it necessary. The position of a
reasonable person who hoped against hope
that we might avoid war should be that
since war was unavoidable, it is now evi-
dent that unless we take measures to
prevent it we may be involved, willy-
nilly, in future general wars. Our interests
at the end of this war will be too wide-
spread to let us escape such a choice.
We have learned, too, that sympathy for
the British Commonwealth is so strong
in this country that it can scarcely be
resisted, and it will be reinforced by
ties of a compelling nature to Canada
and Australia when the war ends. We
must protect Canada. We shall probably,
choose to protect Australia.
Common sense, therefore, dictates
future active interest in international
politics-in power politics, if you will. To
pursue it without disaster to ourselves
means, at the very best, heavy armament,
especially on the sea and in the air,
vastly more astute management of our
foreign relations and more brains in for-
eign trade relations.
The Senate might well give attention
to such things, and by way of preparing
this country for an enlarged role in
international affairs, might well adopt
a resolution of postwar co-operation.
But this does not mean adherence to
the visions of Wallace or anyone else.
Surely it should not mean an advance
commitment at this time to the blurry
sort of international policing which the
Ball-Hatch-Burton-Hill resolution suggests.
TWO KINDS OF POLICING
The half-baked nature of that resolution
is shown by the fact that it includes
two kinds of policing with no clear in-
dication of which is which. The first is
the necessary control of conquered ter-
ritories and nations pending conclusive
peace. The second is the establishment
of a permanent international organization
to police all nations. Clearly the first of
these should come first. The second can
wait a while.
It should be remembered that the last
effective peace on this earth was made
after the Napoleonic wars. Its arrange-
ment began in 1814 when Napoleon was
sent to Elba. It was interrupted in 1815
for 100 days. Then it continued until 1822.
It may take that long this time. It would,
in any case, be folly and effrontery for
the Senate, the terms of all of whose mem-
bers will expire by 1948, to commit Amer-
ican policy on a point that may not be
settled before 1950.
The Senate should certainly adopt a
resolution pledging its interest in post-
war preparation. But it should not thereby
bind its own hands.
Copyright, 1943, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.