Uncle Sam's
Mood Changing?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Something is happening to people's attitude about future foreign policy. The
change, if it be a change, is hard to define. But it may be a sign of important
things to come. You hear it mentioned in casual talk these days by seasoned
veterans in opinion-forecasting who meet people firsthand and get their hunches,
like twinges of rheumatism, from the atmosphere.
Part of this new mood can be explained by saying that people are beginning to
realize that this is a war, not a crusade. Of course, it has been a war all along,
even before we got into it. But, what with the Wallaces and Willkies shouting that
the world is on the march and would never be the same, and with the global
Pastor Russells saying that millions now living would see the millennium, and what
with the kicking around of everybody suspected of "Isolationism" in 1941, people
for a while became very international-minded. We felt poignantly dependent upon
the world, for a while.
AMERICAN POWER
Perhaps a swift ebbing of that mood comes from the recovery of a sense of
American power. Production, despite immediate slowing down, is nevertheless
pouring weapons into every front—superlative weapons, too. Our ships sail the seas
in greater numbers and with lessening danger. Our armies are immense and are
shaking Europe. Our Navy is growing at an incredible rate.
At the same time—and this is most important—we are getting a little disappointed
about Europe once more. We are getting our dose of disillusionment swallow by
swallow this time, not all in one gulp, as in 1918. North Africa was a starter.
In dealing with Darlan our authorities did as they should have. They dealt with
realities. Whereupon our visionaries attacked the people who dealt with Darlan.
This was a bit of a shock because the same visionaries had been telling us that
we must co-operate with other nations. But, apparently they meant that international
co-operation could only be with nice New Deal nations. That confused us, since it
meant that our internationalists were not internationalists at all.
This ideological limitation on the people with whom we must associate was the
most arrogant kind of isolation. We began to realize that our visionaries might
not like to set up a world state even with Churchill or Chiang Kai-shek, if they
disapproved their politics. Meanwhile, jealousies rocked the liberated French in
Africa. We received a full-dress preview of what difficulties we may have with a
liberated Europe.
RUDELY EXPLODED
The idea that all that ailed Europe was two human beings was rudely exploded
after one of them, Mussolini, was eliminated. Italy was still difficult to understand.
Stalin, always more realistic than his American admirers, baffled our internationalists
with his reticence. To them it seemed strange that he should feel that it was more
important to drive German intruders off his country's soil than to join the four
freedoms seminar.
Americans looking for leadership suddenly found that their government had two or
three different foreign policies. There are apparently two in the State Department
alone. So the practical sense of Americans begins to devise a people's foreign
policy, which seems to be to win the war as quickly as possible, keep our powder
dry for a long time ahead, be cautious about foreign commitments and be glad
that we have a fine, big, strong country to live in.
This mood may change. But right now, it is unmistakable.
Copyright, 1943. *New York Herald Tribune Syndicate*
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.