Absurdities
of Draft Threat
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
If the President intended his work-or-
be-drafted policy to be a substitute for
the antistrike legislation, he has over-
looked a number of essential differences.
Or has he?
The threat to draft men who strike is
not an attack on the union which starts
the trouble. The President's proposal by-
passes the union; it is a proposal to attack
individual strikers. It does not contem-
plate putting the heads and employees of
unions in the Army. Lewis, to take a con-
spicuous example, will not be subject to
the draft because he has not quit work.
He is working long hours every day as a
union leader. The President's statement
says the action of the "leaders" of the
mine workers has been intolerable. But
then it goes on to threaten not the lead-
ers, but the men.
NO PERSONAL PLEDGE
That brings us to another inconsistency
in the President's plan. The workers have
not promised individually not to strike.
So far as this reporter knows, they made
no such personal pledge. Green, Murray
and the leaders made that promise. So
the President would crack down on indi-
viduals for something they have not
promised to refrain from doing, while he
does nothing whatever to those who did
make the promise. Apparently he does
not want Congress to hold those leaders
responsible either, whether for their
promise or for anything else.
The President's proposal, as many have
pointed out, would permit him to use the
power of the draft for something quite
unlike its original purpose. It makes
punitive something which the govern-
ment has said is an honor. It is no
tribute to military service.
But more ominous still, if the power
should be given to the President in terms
that would allow him to discriminate in
drafting without reference to an organ-
ized body of which the offenders are
members (and it goes without saying that
the draft properly cannot take note of a
man's union memberships), the granted
power would be almost limitless. He
might use it for all sorts of purposes
beyond coercing striking mine workers.
Certainly, that would be said if Congress
tried to give him power over the leaders
under such a plan. Any attempt to trans-
late his scheme into legislation might
even give him the power to draft all kinds
of offenders against his own notions of
what is essential to the war effort, such
as critics and dissenters generally.
ABSURD PREDICAMENT
Under government operation, the gov-
ernment will presumably take the union
dues from workers' pay envelopes and
give them to the leaders. Thus, after say-
ing that the leaders, not the miners, are
to blame, the government takes the
miners' money and gives it to the leaders.
This is merely a further extension of the
absurd predicament into which the gov-
ernment has got itself.
Obviously, the President is determined
to do anything except to recognize that
the unions themselves, as distinguished
from their dues-paying members, should
be held responsible for their acts. Appar-
ently he is willing, for example, to have
the union leaders take the dues money,
which the government takes from the men
and gives to the union, contributed by the
leaders to political campaigns—even his
own. What kind of self-government is
that? It would mean that the beneficiaries
of governmental power exact tribute from
workers, pass it through the union treas-
ury and then use it to elect themselves to
office.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
New Ambition at Harvard
Boston Globe
Now that Harvard is going in for in-
struction by mail, Harvard students will
be fired by a second ambition—to lick
stamps, as well as Yale.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.