World Police
Idea Challenged
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The new resolution on international co-
operation prepared by Senator Connally's
Foreign Relations subcommittee is so neat-
ly packaged that its salient paragraph
deserves full attention. It says: ""That the
United States, acting through its consti-
tutional processes, join with free and sov-
ereign nations in the establishment and
maintenance of international authority
with power to prevent aggression and to
preserve the peace of the world."
This is safe. It will satisfy almost every-
one, and is about all that this country can
say at this time. Presumably, the Burton-
Ball-Hatch-Hill resolution, together with
such programs as that of ex-Governor
Stassen, goes out the window. And well
they may! For these embody a concept
which can have no reality in this world
for many generations. That concept is
an international police agency.
'POLICE' DEFINED
It is strange that lawyers—and Stassen,
Burton, Hatch and Hill are all lawyers—
can play around with the term "police"
without apparently having the slightest
conception of its meaning. A legally con-
stituted police authority is an arm of
some form of government. If it is a police
agency, it must be responsible only to
the governmental authority that creates
it. And it must be powerful enough to
suppress any of the constituent parts of
that government authority.
For example, if a league should be cre-
ated by the United States, Great Britain,
Russia and China, and that league should
create a police force, that police force
would have to be able to coerce any one
or more of the nations which are mem-
bers of the league. Each constituent mem-
ber would have to surrender its authority
over any part of the police force. Its or-
ders, would have to be obeyed by all
nations, even an order to disarm. That
is the legal and precise meaning of the
term police power. Unless coercive force
of that nature is present, it is not police
force that we are discussing.
OR AN ALLIANCE?
Presumably, Messrs. Stassen, Burton,
Hatch and Hill will say at this point that
they didn't mean that kind of police. They
may have meant that the United States
et al, would join to keep Japan and Ger-
many from breaking out again, but as
lawyers they should have used the correct
term, which is alliance. Such an alliance
with limited objectives is not an interna-
tional police authority. It bears the same
relation to international police that a
night watchman bears to a real cop.
When the great sanction of this nation
is being pledged, it is well to use terms
correctly. The Burton-Ball-Hatch-Hill res-
olution did not. The new resolution, at any
rate, is intelligible. It leaves a lot to be
decided, but it starts where such matters
should start—with terms that can be un-
derstood.
Copyright, 1945, Chicago Journal of Commerce
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.