Mr. Spangler
Ready for Job
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The claim that the election of Harrison
E. Spangler of Iowa to the chairmanship
of the Republican National Committee was
a victory for Wendell Willkie is pure
bunk. Mr. Spangler is an excellent choice,
but neither his philosophy of government
nor his background represents the dwin-
(lling faction of the Republican party that
still supports Mr. Willkie.
True, Mr. Willkie opposed Werner W.
Schroeder of Chicago at the St. Louis
meeting of the national committee on
Monday. But it is not at all clear that
Mr. Schroeder would have been elected
in any event. Mr. Schroeder's candidacy
was in essence no more than a rallying
point for those who were determined that
the election of the chairman should be
the occasion for a sound beating of the
titular head of the party. Reports from
St. Louis indicate that up to the last a
strong minority group in the party be-
lieved that since a knockdown fight over
Mr. Willkie was inevitable it was better
to have it in 1942 than in 1944. Joseph
W. Martin Jr., retiring chairman, and
others were not of that view. They recog-
nized that the new chairman must meet
certain essential specifications. Mr. Spang-
ler fitted these specifications just as well
as Mr. Schroeder. So the selection of
Spangler was a natural.
WHAT SPECIFICATIONS?
What were these specifications? First,
that the new chairman come from the
Middle West—the section in which the
Republican party has its most secure hold.
Next, that the party in the years immedi-
ately ahead be in the charge of an ex-
perienced politician whose Republicanism
should be unquestioned. There is a healthy
distrust of amateurs among Republicans,
probably born of the bungling party work
of a good many newcomers in the party
in 1940. The third specification was that
the new chairman be a man who could
give full time or almost full time to the
job of organization.
Mr. Spangler is a seasoned, aged-in-the-
wood politician. His political progress has
been methodical, steady and upward. In
victory and defeat he has stuck to the
job of party organization. He has appar-
ently never been diverted by the lure of
public office for himself.
Those who know him well are enthusi-
astic about his executive ability and po-
litical sagacity. He does not talk much.
He makes friends easily. By temperament
and background he is exceptionally well
qualified to harmonize all Republican fac-
tions and personalities—the prime requi-
site of the job now, in light of the cir-
cumstances in which it came to him.
While as an organization man Spangler
has maintained a discreet reticence to
public policies, his views are similar to
those of Alf Landon. He is said to believe
in a protective tariff and to have a mild
distrust of foreign “entanglements.” These
views aside, it is probable that in any
case Mr. Willkie will find in the new
chairman a polite but firm determination
to run party affairs in his own right.
HOW THE PARTY LOOKS
Spangler understands the agricultural
situation so well that under his skillful
management his home State was taken
away completely from the party in which
his fellow Iowan, Henry Wallace, was
almoner in chief to the farmers. His
Iowan organization elected first, as Gov-
ernor, and later as Senator, George A.
Wilson, known in the grass roots as
a man with a passion for economy. It is
not likely that either Mr. Wallace or that
other native of Iowa, Harry Hopkins, will
have a successful Iowa political career in
our time.
As the Republican party begins to
emerge as a conservative, nationalistic
organization with firm respect for the
traditions that kept it in power so
long, its basic strength will plainly be in
the rural districts and smaller cities. It
will chase no New Deal rainbows and will
firmly resist any effort on the part of
eastern financial interests to control party
affairs. It will not be hostile to business
management.
As an organization, it should be more
competent than in many years. A million
party workers and officers scattered
through the country will have a chief
whom they will understand and admire.
Things continue to look bright for the
party.
Copyright, 1942, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.