The refusal of Russia to admit that it is in anything which it chooses to call Poland, together with the anxious activities of the Polish government in exile, suggests that once more the eternal "Polish problem" is rearing its head up again. A good starting point in getting a view of that "problem" is to realize that it is a many-sided problem. It depends upon which side of the Poland of 1910-'39 you are looking at.

LITTLE KNOWN

All that is known of Russia's intentions in this connection is that it admits that there will always be a Poland. In May, 1943, Stalin spoke of "a strong and independent Poland." Now, apparently, it is too early to say what Poland will be. And there the matter seems to rest.

Within the limits of this short column, it is possible only to speak of that part of the Polish problem which lies immediately ahead of the Red armies west of Kiev. Straight ahead to the west some 150 miles, lies the boundary fixed by Russia when, in 1939, they moved their armies westward as Hitler struck at Warsaw.

If the Red armies proceed in that direction they will pass through an area populated before the war by a very large majority of Ukrainian Russians. There are spots of Poles in that area, but the most authentic ethnological maps, such as that contained in Bernard Newman's "The New Europe," justify Russia's claim to the boundary of 1939. There is evidence, not quite clear, it is true, that Russia in fixing that boundary in 1939 exercised a commendable restraint. For it is said Hitler was willing to fix the boundary farther to the west.

SOME OF THE CLAIMS

No doubt, Stalin is proceeding in the belief that he is rectifying a great injustice growing out of the Versailles peace. The war in 1918 was ended on the basis of Wilson's 14 points. One of those points declared for a Poland inhabited by "indisputably Polish population." The peace finally concluded, however, grossly violated that point, and at the expense of Russia.

A hundred miles to the north the population changes from Ukrainian to White Russian. But Russians still predominate. The Russian claim will be firm there, too. Still farther north around Vilna, Poles predominate. The issue there will rest upon other grounds, if Russia makes further claims.

The whole situation is so confused now that the wisest policy for Americans is to withhold judgment on details and to hold to Stalin's promise that Poland will have a permanent place among the nations. A terrific flood of propaganda from all sides will engulf us as peace approaches. But while we are winning the war, such propaganda can safely be taken with a grain of salt.

Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of Commerce.