On Stamps
and Stones
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When Sen. Harry S. Truman
told a rather inattentive country
that Mr. Roosevelt's experience
and knowledge were indispensable
for peacemaking, he might
have specified one of his candidate's
unique qualifications. The
Commander-in-Chief is, among
other things, an experienced
postage-stamp collector. And
only a stamp collector can know
what independence means to a
small nation. In fact, only a
stamp collector can have that familiarity with the existence
small nations which will prevent
some of them from being lost in
the shuffle at the peace conference.
Take, for instance, the case of
San Marino, perhaps the next
country to be liberated. San
Marino lives on two things—the
sale of the stamps that its sovereignty permits it to make and
the stone that it digs out of its
rocky terrain.
HOW IT SURVIVED
This little country, which has
proclaimed to everyone except
Mussolini that it is the oldest
republic in the world, is high in
the Apennines near Rimini. The
Italian war is very close to it
now. It has already sent diplomatic representations protesting
the dropping of Allied bombs in
its 38 square miles of territory
and its 15,000 inhabitants are
frightened.
Its birth as a nation goes back
to the fourth century, when
Rome fell apart all around it.
It has been no haven for travelers because its brigands have
had a keen property interest in
strangers. Up to the time of
Mussolini, its "democracy" was
vested in a government consisting of a grand council of 60 members. When Fascism swept
through Italy, it got in step, not
by changing its constitution, but
by creating a tiny Fascist militia. Its armed forces number
less than 1000, and it has been
sufficiently thrifty to avoid increasing them during the war.
Its budget is less than $500,000
and its debt is nothing.
Its capital, looking over the
war-ridden plains near Rimini, is
San Marino, a town of 2000.
A LESSON?
The population is probably
spending much of its time in
caves these days, waiting for the
storm to end. When it does and
the armies of the democratic nations come to the old republic,
we can be sure that it will burn
its Fascist mementos and ardently join the peace-loving nations.
Our soldiers will get kisses and
Chianti wine. The merchants
will sell them plenty of postage
stamps for their collections. And
they will remind them that
when Columbus discovered
America, San Marino had been
a kind of republic for 11 centuries. If we let it sell stamps,
San Marino will need no WPA.
Perhaps we can all draw a lesson from San Marino. It is the
oldest and smallest republic in
Europe. Can it be true that it
has lasted so long because it is
so small?
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.