Raymond Moley _ _ YALTA AND BRETTON WOODS
In various aspects the Yalta
agreement is a victory for American ideas and conditions. We
have insisted on the destruction
of German militarism, while
Russia has hitherto favored the
retention by Germany of the
nucleus of an army.
At Yaita. Russia abandoned
that objective, for the antimilitary conditions imposed on Germany are sweeping. Russia also
abandoned its German committee and captive German generals
completely, unless it intends to
use them in the Russian-controlled part of Germany.
BENEFITS AWAITED
Stalin likewise gave enthusiastic approval to the Atlantic
Charter and its assorted principles. The Lublin government
is to be reorganized, and Poland is to have a free popular
choice of government. Yugoslavia is to be independent. Poland is to be compensated for
the territory east of the Curzon
Line.
The gains by Russia and Great
Britain from us are not all apparent in the Yalta document.
The whole picture emerges only
as we tie in Yalta with Bretton
Woods. It could not have been
a coincidence that the President's urgent message to Congress of Feb. 12 on the Bretton
Woods plan appeared on the
same day as the Yalta formula.
For Russia and Great Britain
are eagerly and urgently awaiting their benefits under the proposed international fund and the
world bank.
The fact is that Russia at Bretton Woods tried hard to get an
even larger share in the international financial setup than was
first proposed. This must have
been the first time that a Communist group ever tried to get
an important share in a capitalist company. The reason is
clear. The larger Russia's share
in the proposed bank, the higher
will be her borrowing power.
HUGE SUMS NEEDED
America will, under the Bretton Woods plan, place almost
$6,000,000,000 at the disposal of
postwar international trade. That
may not seem important to
Americans, but it is real dough
to non-Americans. A dollar borrowed in Britain buys about
double what it buys here. And
Russia can make even greater
use of it.
Before this war, the whole
financing of normal commercial
trade (not investment) did not
involve more than $6,000,000,000
to $8,000,000,000 in credit. Russia's share in prewar trade was
between 1 and 3 per cent. After
the war in Europe, Russia will
need huge sums for reconstruction and industrialization.
The Bretton Woods plan engaged the United States for the
first time in a great lending
operation for Soviet Russia in
peacetime. All the capitalistic
countries together before the
war gave Russia not over
$750,000,000 in credit. The Bretton Woods plan gives Russia
the assurance of several times
that amount from all sources.
Marshal Stalin, in talking to
Eric Johnson of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, emphasized
his need of loans.
POSITION CLEAR
The American position is clear.
We are proposing a degree of
economic assistance bearable for
us and immensely important to
others. In return, we get a formula and a settlement of conditions which meet our desire
for world peace, perhaps in our
time.
Whether we also will get Russian assistance against Japan,
few people can know. But we
have used our vast economic
power to achieve a number of
substantial objectives. Time
alone will determine the result.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.