Governors'
14 Points
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
We shall have to go back a
long time to find anything as remarkable in American politics
as the recent meeting of the Republican Governors in St. Louis.
That group is going to be a big
factor not only in the Republican
party but in the leadership
of thinking about government.
Their 14-point platform makes
better reading and, incidentally,
much more sense than either
of the platforms of the major
parties.
The difference between the
Governors' 14 points and the
party platforms is the difference
between the product of a group
that has learned to think and
work together and the product
of a miscellaneous group,
thrown together for the first
time in the heat and hurry of
a convention. A resolutions committee at a convention works
under great difficulties. Its personnel is not wholly determined
until the last minute. Its drafting subcommittees meet and
wrangle over words far into the
night hours. Hasty compromises, which give that colorless
tone characteristic of party platforms, are thrown together.
DEWEY'S PLATFORM
Gov. Dewey very shrewdly
appraised the situation this
year. He saw that the platform
on which he was supposed to
run, except for the plank on
foreign affairs, was too general
to satisfy the searching requirements of intelligent voters.
He therefore accepted the platform without objection and
then calmly proceeded to build,
through his own staff and
through his fellow Governors,
a supplementary platform,
closer to the people's needs and
much more specific on domestic
affairs.
Anyone who has seen the Republican Governors at work
cannot help but be impressed.
They are an abler, more clean-
cut and younger lot of men than
the Republican group in the Senate. They have been together
several times, not only at the
annual general conferences, but
at regional gatherings. They
have similar problems, they see
eye to eye and they are vastly
closer to the staggering problems of postwar America than
is either Congress or the bureaucracy in Washington.
The Governors have not only
provided in their 14 points the
elements of a home-front program, but at Mackinac they created
the basis of the Republican
foreign policy statement brought
to Chicago by the Senators and
incorporated in the platform.
STATE INFLUENCE
Few people in Washington or
in the big eastern cities realize
how warm, close and helpful is
the influence of the State on
most people in the country. Despite the growth of Federal
power, most intimate concerns
of the citizen are tied to State
law.
Gov. Dewey is rapidly creating the elements of a truly national
party through his appeal
to the States. For, as long as
the States are important, we
can have no class government
in this country.
Copyright, 1844, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.