The Republican platform
missed a bet when it failed to
paraphrase its patron saint, Lincoln, and say, "God must have
loved small business men: he
made so many of them."
But the Republicans love them
and saluted them, and so too
the Democrats probably will.
Whether all this concern will
materially help the 3,000,000-odd
small businesses of the country
remains to be seen. But it is
significant that the most individualistic and the least organized economic group has succeeded in making enough noise
to worry the major parties.
In 1936 both parties overlooked small business. In 1940
both took note of them. This
time the Republican party,
which has suffered so much in
the past by being called the
party of big business, opens
the way to being called the
small business party. And small
business support can put Mr.
Dewey well on the highroad to
the White House.
SPECIAL CONCERN
If it is fair to estimate the
number of small concerns at
about 3,000,000, the number of
votes directly involved will run
to three or four times that number—perhaps more. That bloc
of votes, if it can be called a
bloc, is as potent as labor, although not so large as agriculture. Moreover, if, as can be
assumed, it is not happy over
taxation and rationing it will
be set for a change. Since the
mental bent of its members is
capitalistic and risk-seeking, it
will not be attracted by the
collectivism of the New Deal-
C.I.O. party.
That the political disposition
of small business is a matter
of concern to the administration
is shown by various efforts to
divert it from Republican leanings. Mr. Morgenthau, no doubt
seeking to beat the Republican
platform-makers to the issue,
made two important and divergent statements during the
week in which Mr. Taft's committee was laboring on the platform. On June 19 the Secretary of the Treasury in Chicago
was doubtful about the removal
of dual taxation of corporation
profits. Four days later in
Washington he spoke of "the
importance of risk capital. Earlier, Marriner Eccles discussed
in the Federal Reserve Bulletin
the plight of small business under double taxation.
CHANCE FOR DEWEY
If Mr. Morgenthau is so concerned about the scarcity of
risk capital, he might reconsider the practical suggestion
of colleague Eccles, since the
double taxation of incorporated
small business probably falls
more directly upon fewer people per corporation than it does
in the case of big businesses.
It would seem that Mr. Dewey
has a genuinely important issue here. On the side of practical politics, nothing he can
say on behalf of small business
can offend big business, while
little said on their behalf is contrary to the interests of workers.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.