Raymond Moley.
It may or may not be significant that most of the amendments to the Federal Constitution over the past century have been adopted toward the end or shortly after the end of the two major wars of that period. Perhaps that is because things are in a more fluid condition at such times and the public is willing to make changes.
At present there are a number of details in our Constitution which are definitely in need of change and the Judiciary committees of Congress might well put together a group of minor amendments to go through the hopper together.
I pointed out the other day in this column that there seems to be a constitutional difficulty in the way of President Truman's excellent suggestions about putting the Speaker of the House in line for Presidential succession and for holding a special election to fill a vacancy in the Presidency.
The point I made was that the Constitution says the term of the President shall be four years, and good constitutional lawyers say that Congress cannot provide for an election for an abbreviated term. This could be corrected very easily.
Another question which will have some note in the weeks to come is the unnecessary provision that a treaty be confirmed by a two-thirds majority of the Senate. Perhaps a better way of confirming treaties would be by a simple majority of both houses.
And while the Senate's power of veto over the Executive is being overhauled, it might be well to overhaul the President's power of veto over Congress.
Hatton W. Sumners, the wise chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, has proposed an amendment to the Constitution which would permit the two houses of Congress, by simple majorities, to override a Presidential veto of any bill passed by Congress. Mr. Sumner's argument is most persuasive. To require a two-thirds majority to override a veto gives the President a power over legislation which violates the substance and spirit of vesting all legislative power in Congress.
Mr. Sumners makes the shrewd point that the President, in exercising the veto power, in effect wields as much power in legislative matters as 15 Senators and 72 members of the House.
Orderly change in the structure of government is certainly required in the face of the problems which lie ahead. Ours is a good Constitution, but it needs an occasional overhauling.