Raymond Moley.
On the oratorical side, Republicans are doing all right. But that is wholly within the realm of what is identified as party policies, which is an important but a minor factor in the whole galaxy of problems before the party. When a party is out of power, its principles cannot be merely an affirmation of belief in certain measures and theories which it would, if elected, carry out. Since it has no power to carry them out, these "principles" largely consist of words put together in attractive ways. I seriously doubt whether votes are made by such words.
It is organization which makes a party succeed, and on that score the Republican picture is not so bright. The recent meeting of the Republican National Committee at Indianapolis spent itself in a few generalities and then dispersed. It resolved to have an all-year-round organization which, of course, it has always had. It indorsed Chairman Brownell, as it should have done. New members were introduced to old members. A speech or two followed, and that was about all.
The impression gained by sympathetic observers was that Republican national leaders do not yet comprehend the magnitude of the job ahead of them; that they are not preparing to go to the grass roots of every county to organize effectively for the next campaign; that they have no plans to organize the wage earners of the country in the efficient manner displayed by Hillman, and that plans to co-ordinate the Republicans in Congress with the national committee do not exist. Chairman Brownell will not be a full-time director, which is unfortunate. This, however, can measurably be remedied by the appointment of a very strong full-time national director to serve under the chairman. There are rumors about such a director, but presumably no decision has yet been reached.
There was, in Indianapolis, an altogether too great disposition to let the Democratic party defeat itself. It seemed to be assumed that the trend was toward a Republican President. That, unfortunately, was what Republicans thought in 1940. Four years of pretty casual organizational work followed. What with the prospect that billions of public money will be spent to cement the New Deal in power and with more than 3,000,000 Federal officeholders, the chances of a New Deal suicide are not bright.
The Republican party has a major responsibility to the country in the months and years ahead. Unfortunately it is still in the speechmaking phase of its job.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.