Iceland's
Newest Role
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
On June 17 Iceland, the newest republic, will join the community of nations. The government of this little country, whose people are of the purest Germanic stock, has officially severed its relations with King Christian X of Denmark and is submitting a republican constitution to its people for a vote, which it will certainly carry overwhelmingly.
The Icelanders are no strangers to popular government. Their Parliament, the Althing, is the oldest in the world. It dates back more than 1000 years. It had been in existence for 70 years when Leif Ericson, in 1000 A.D., visited our country at what is now New Bedford, Mass.
VITAL INTERESTS
Iceland is as big as Kentucky, although its population is only a little bigger than that of Fall River, Mass. It lived quietly under the loosely held rule of Denmark for some centuries, but when great nations began to vie for air dominance of the North Atlantic, it no doubt felt like a herring among whales.
Hitler precipitated the issue, and, in 1940, British troops occupied Iceland as a protective measure. With true Anglo-Saxon regard for the proprieties, the United States first ordained a formal invitation; then it moved in. Apparently, all three nations are happy about the protective occupation.
While no economic factors caused the British or Americans to covet Iceland, it is obviously too convenient a base for hostile operations to permit protective measures to lapse even after the war. Leif Ericson discovered America from Iceland; it is not impossible that America will now discover her vital interests in Leif Ericson's Iceland.
THEY LOOK TO US
King Christian is sad about it all. But for some time the Icelanders have felt—and with reason—their connections with the Danish royal family did not protect their precarious position in the no-man's land among the ambitions of huge empires. Even two years before the outbreak of the war in 1939 it was apparent Denmark's control could not protect the Icelanders' vital desire for self-government and provide them with security, too. The question since has been which tie, whether to the British Commonwealth or as a semi-protectorate under the power of the United States, would give them promise of being the more lasting.
Because the geographic position of the Icelanders directed their interests to us, they no doubt look to us as the protector of their modest destinies. In any case, it is scarcely possible that we would leave the door for air traffic into areas of vital interest to us completely open.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Scrap of Paper
Indianapolis News
Another piece of paper that might as well be donated to the waste campaign is that on which the no-strike pledge was written.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.