Paralysis
in Reich?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Those who expect chaos in
Germany, after defeat, are making a poor appraisal of the
strategy of the Allies. That
strategy, as we now see it revealed, aims at economic paralysis no less than at military annihilation. The immediate economic prospect of Germany is
that of a thoroughly subdued nation before cold weather, rather
than a nation rent by civil war.
As has been pointed out over,
and over, the loss of Romania means the reduction of German
oil supplies by one-third to one-half. This loss of oil has already
thrown Germany back upon her
coal supplies.
THE NEXT SCENE
And that is where Patton enters the scene. Two-thirds of
all German coal supplies are in
the Ruhr Basin, the Rhineland
and the adjoining Saar Basin.
Without this coal, not only the
military machine but all domestic life in the Reich must stop.
This means economic strangulation not in months, but in weeks.
The two lines of attack, one
through the Saar, the other
through Aachen, have economic
as well as military purposes.
Production in the Saar Basin
must already be at a standstill.
The other secondary source of
coal, north of Aachen, the so-called Wurm Coal Basin, is also
either invaded or immobilized.
Beyond these centers is the Ruhr
Basin proper, which contains 60
per cent of all German coal. This
basin begins at the Rhine at
Duisburg and runs 40 to 50 miles
inland. It lies a little over 50
miles from the Dutch border and
the city of Aachen, and is thus
exposed to very convenient air
attacks.
The attack upon Germany
could hardly have been better
timed than for September, for in
this month Germany's transportation system is under a tremendous burden. The railroads
must carry the newly harvested
grain, potatoes and sugar beets
to processing centers. Coal deliveries are always very heavy
in the weeks before cold weather. Even in normal times, Germany has heard again and again
in this season of the "lack of
wagons and boats" in the Ruhr
Basin.
THE PROSPECT
The vast network of railways
which serves these coal regions
centers in the Chicago of Germany, the twin cities of Duisburg and Ruhrort. Bombs, can
hardly miss the mass of tracks
and loading machinery in this
region.
A high industrialized nation,
thus attacked by vastly superior
forces in regions of such vital
importance, is not likely to break
into confusion. What is much
more likely is the rapid slowing
down of its energy, followed by
helplessness. When that happens, quick occupation by the
Allies will make revolution or
partisan warfare simply impossible.
Copyright. 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.