Raymond Moley
Gov. Baldwin of Connecticut
solved a tough political problem by appointing Adm. Thomas
C. Hart to the United States
Senate. Democrats in a State
which Mr. Roosevelt carried
comfortably just had to go
along. Republican jealousies
were stifled, And the people of
the State are apparently proud
of their representative. This
will not be the first brass hat
to exchange a uniform for a
toga. The political history of
the generation to come will be
heavily colored, if not dominated, by votes and the leaders
of the men now in service.
Despite the fact that Gen.
Douglas MacArthur's future
role in the Japanese war will
probably be settled by military
considerations, there can be no
doubt that political speculators
at home will follow his career
with enormous interest.
A PARADOX
The American record on this
point presents a sharp paradox.
Here is a country in which fear
of the military is embedded in
the Constitution and in the
deepest instincts of the people.
Americans like to be called the
most peace-loving, the most
antimilitaristic people in the
world.
They intone with solemnity
the charge in the Declaration
of Independence that the King
"has affected to render the
military independent of and
superior to the civil power."
But nine of their 32 Presidents
have been generals, and four
others ostentatiously displayed
lesser military rank. From Gen.
Grant to Col. Theodore Roosevelt there was only the one
plain citizen—Mister Grover
Cleveland. Add to the proof
Vice-Presidents and candidates
too numerous to mention, and
American love of gold braid is
established.
INTERESTING BOOK
This inconsistency in us is
the theme of an interesting
book which has just appeared,
"Generals in the White House,"
by Dorothy and Julius Goebel.
The authors are intelligent and
trained historians, although they
have omitted not only their
academic titles and degrees but,
as a further eloquent piece of
symbolism, have presented a
book without a footnote.
They have presented the factors that brought Presidential
availability to Gens. Washington,
Jackson, Grandpa Harrison,
Taylor, Pierce, Grant, Hayes,
Garfield and Grandson Harrison. And not the least of the
authors' contributions is their
showing that most of these generals suffered a loss of stature
as President because they tried
so hard not to act like generals.
Had Gen. Grant whipped and
disciplined his party better, he
would have been a better President. It has been the civilians
in office who have revealed the
most lustful reaches for power.
TAKE A GOOD LOOK!
But up to 1917 the most interesting point is not how generals
were turned into politicians, but how politicians were
turned into generals. There a
further inconsistency, not to say
hypocrisy, in our national character reveals itself. Politicians,
in many cases Governors of
States, piously talked of keeping the military independent of
the civil establishment and behind the scenes persistently
pulled wires to put their pals
into high military office. Of
course, history tells of some excellent political generals. But
we have found no Julius Caesars
or Cromwells lurking around
our courthouses. Only the virility of our nation saved us at
times from destruction at the
hands of the amateurs. A further national inconsistency presents itself here. As a people
who have talked much of peace,
we have certainly got ourselves
into a powerful lot of wars.
So, as we look beyond victory, let us not forget these tendencies of ours. Have a good
look at Mr. Roosevelt. He may
be the last civilian President
we who are living shall see.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.