The War
on Air Waves
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
As the war on the four European fronts increases in intensity, the short-wave war on the propaganda front also goes into high gear. The interesting fact about this war of the wave lengths is that we hear only one side of it—the German side. The chief impact of it comes blaring over our Atlantic walls for hours every night.
After listening to this stuff with some care since the invasion began, I find several main themes in the Goebbels attack. The first is the German effort to fan anti-Russian sentiment in this country. In perfect English and with a carefully calculated amount of incidental entertainment the various broadcasters tell Americans, in one breath, of the terrible losses they are sustaining on the French front and, in the next, that Stalin is the mastermind behind the whole war. Roosevelt and Churchill are portrayed as Russia’s puppets.
A ‘RED’ WAR
The words “Bolsheviks” and “Communists” are in nearly every sentence of the news commentary. Tito’s army is called “merely Communist bandits.” A “Red Europe” is the objective of the Allies. The war is a “Red war.”
Second, there is a lot of stuff in the broadcasts intended to fan racial and religious prejudice. This is a “Jewish war,” Negroes are being given the toughest jobs in our military service, and the like.
The eternal German pundit always appears in the course of the evening. He tells us that many historic Anglo-American statements of principles are just high-sounding bunches of words, intended to cover a special interest.
WHAT TO TELL THEM
The invasion, they say, is another Churchill idea. They solemnly recall the story of Gallipoli, which, they gleefully point out, was Churchill’s great failure. This invasion, they prophesy, will end the same way.
Practiced as the Germans are in the art of propaganda, we must not attribute infallible skill to them.
What the Germans seem most eager to cover up is the plain truth that vast numbers of Americans are, in fact, on the soil of France and that more are still pouring in daily. Perhaps, since our propaganda artists are unskilled in the practice of lying, this fact is the best theme on which we can play on the short-waves to the Continent.
Tell them that, O.W.I., over and over.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.