Warren Choice
Discloses New
Keynoter Type
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CHICAGO, June 26.—The selection of Gov. Earl Warren as
keynoter of this convention ran
in the face of Republican custom. Remember the days when
keynoting was the exclusive
function of stand-pat Republican
Senators like Lodge the elder,
Harding and Root? In those days
keynoting reached what might
be called its classic form and
perfection. It was a species of
semimuted hog-calling, designed
to becloud the sensibilities and
reason of the delegates. After a
mild degree of keynote intoxication the said delegates could
be counted on to ask no question about the candidates and
platform prepared for them by
their elders.
Something Different
When Messrs. Spangler and
Martin selected Gov. Warren as
keynoter for the convention,
they didn’t know much about
him. They only knew he was
something different and that he
was not Clare Luce, in whose
behalf a great hullabaloo had
been raised.
That wasn’t much to know
about Earl Warren but they
probably know a lot more now.
They have learned that he was
not going to permit the elder
brethren to write his speech for
him. They have learned that he
views the immediate past of the
party as something less than a
golden age but that he does not,
like Mr. Willkie, look upon past
successes of the Republican
party as unmitigated disasters
to the republic. They know that
he is a man who does not say,
“You Republicans” to them.
Prestige Rises
People around this town who
were at Mackinac and the various Governors’ conferences are
saying that Warren is the most
generally liked figure in the
party. He has come out of every
bout with newspapermen with
increased prestige among that
critical fraternity. There is something modest and unsuperman-
ish about him.
To get the full significance of
this Warren manner one must go
back to origins. Warren’s father was a big honest fellow like
Earl with Scandinavian blood in
his veins. He was for many
years an employee of the Southern Pacific Railroad in Bakersfield, Cal.
Warren started life as a call
boy for the railroad. His official
career like that of Gov. Dewey
began as prosecutor of a big
urban county. From there he
moved on to the Attorney General and then Governor of California.
Pressure Grows
The pressure upon him to accept second place on the ticket
with Dewey is getting stronger
every hour. Dewey is said to be
particularly determined to have
Warren accept. Warren’s reluctance is largely based upon his
feeling that he was elected by
the voters of his State to clear
out the remains of the Olson administration and that he has a
moral obligation to the people
of that State to remain.
The arguments used to persuade him to accept the Vice-
Presidential nomination are that
he owes a large responsibility to
the party and the nation as a
whole. Some of the Dewey people tell him that his decision
means life or death to the ticket. His decision between these
conflicting appeals may not
come until the balloting for
Vice-President comes.
If he finally is nominated and
accepts the Republicans will
have an all-draft ticket, which is
certainly something new in
American politics.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.