Hillman
Tells All
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Mr. Sidney Hillman's statement to a Congressional committee concerning his C.I.O.-P.A.C.-N.C.P.A.C. committee was so soft-spoken that one might draw the conclusion that a campaign contribution would not melt in his mouth. He asserted that his dual organization is not a political party. Horrors, no!! It is nonpartisan and educational.
The best judges of that are machine members of the Democratic party, who are saying privately that their local workers are not doing what they are supposed to do in a political campaign. In short, the local workers are going to let Sidney do it. If a politician quits because a nonpartisan committee is doing what he ordinarily does, the committee looks powerfully like a party.
WHAT IT DOES
Of course that is what it is, despite Hillman's honeyed homily. What does a party do?
It selects candidates. Mr. Hillman's consent was essential to the nomination of Mr. Truman. The C.I.O. couldn't select Mr. Roosevelt, for he was President before the C.I.O. was born.
It indorses candidates and recommends their election. Mr. Hillman admits that his committees do that.
It collects money for political activities. Mr. Hillman asserted that,
It gets out the vote. That is right down P.A.C.'s alley.
So what, in the name of Kelly, Hague and Flynn, does a party do that Mr. Hillman's committees do not do?
THREE ACTIVITIES
What is really happening is that Mr. Hillman and his associates have shrewdly taken up three political activities in which national party organizations have been notoriously weak.
The first is, to provide local organizations with printed literature that is useful to local workers. National committees, past and present, have sent out tons of "literature." But it has always been so miserable in character that it is usually tossed into dusty corners and furnaces. It has consisted of reprints of speeches long since made and forgotten, a campaign "textbook" that is about as useful to a party worker as a Greek grammar. The Hillman handbooks are models of sharp, readable propaganda.
The second activity to which Mr. Hillman has set himself is to get people to register and vote. It is notorious to practical politics that local workers fail to do this effectively.
The third and most important point that Mr. Hillman knows is that a little wisely distributed money goes a long way in Congressional elections.
The danger to traditional party government in the C.I.O.-P.A.C. is very great. If Mr. Hillman succeeds, he will be, excepting only the President, the most potent figure in the Democratic party.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.