Raymond Moley
RUSSIAN-CHINESE TREATY
The treaty of friendship and
alliance between Russia and
China may well be the most important and lasting result of the
defeat of Japan. The vast size
of the contracting parties, the
immense area of their mutual
interests, the long and complicated history of those mutual
interests and the racial and
ideological problems involved
lend this settlement an element
of reassurance to those who
have worried about the future
of Eastern Asia.
A careful examination of the
treaty and collateral agreements,
now made public, suggests that
Chiang Kai-shek gained far
more than he conceded.  Aut So-
viet diplomacy is farsighted,
and second thoughts on the
treaty suggest also that Stalin
and Molotov were wisely building for Russia.
MOST IMPORTANT
Most important for Chiang
and for China is the degree of
recognition which the treaty
gives to Chiang's "National government of the Chinese republic." Russia has followed the
United States in putting all her
eggs in Chiang's basket.
British diplomacy, which has
been skeptical about the permanence of the so-called republic
headed by Chiang, must now go
all-out to win his full cooperation. The Chinese Communists
are brushed off as a matter for
the new republic to handle.
With the aid from Russia envisaged in the treaty, and with
the American aid in prospect,
Chiang can, with reasonable
tact and forbearance, manage
the Yenan minority without
civil war.
ACCEPTING INEVITABLE
Even the Yenan Communists
seem to recognize this. Mao Tse-
tung's adoption of the title of
Chiang's "younger brother" is a
quaint way of recognizing and
accepting the inevitable.
Along the vast frontier between the two countries—distance from Korea to Chinese
Turkestan of nearly 4000 miles—settlements have been reached
which respect the integrity and
sovereignty of China. The most
interesting of these to Americans is the formula governing
Manchuria. A comparison of the
settlement now achieved with
what Czarist Russia secured 50
years ago should convince any
fair judge that Soviet Russia
is less rapacious and more wise
than the old Muscovite regime.
MORE ADVANTAGNOUS
The treaty of 1895, which
gave Russia the right to build
a railroad through Manchuria,
was negotiated by the moderate
and very able Count Witte and
the great Chinese, Li Hung-
chang. The new East China
railway was to be entrusted not
to Russia directly, but to a bank
created for the purpose.
This Russian-created company
might acquire territory along
the railway, and a Russian police service was to administer
the property. Russia also got
a 25-year lease on Port Arthur.
Russia, in return, obtained for
China a loan which enabled her
to pay the Japanese war indemnity.
The present arrangements are
much more advantageous to
China than were those of 50
years ago. The Chinese Eastern
Railway and the South Manchuria Railway are to be merged
into a new Chinese Changchun
railway, to be jointly owned
and operated by China and Russia. This railway will be managed by a joint administration.
ROAD TO INDEPENDENCE
Port Arthur is to be jointly
used for 30 years as a naval
base, with civil administration
in the hands of the Chinese.
Dairen is to be a free port.
Outer Mongolia is to be independent if its people so declare
in a plebiscite. An agreement
also was reached to respect Chinese rights in Sinkiang, the
spacious far west of China.
This treaty with the biggest
of his neighbors will probably
strengthen Chiang's hand in
dealing with Britain, France
and any other nations with
prospective interests in China.
Defeat by Japan in 1895, followed by the Russian entry into
Manchuria, set off a whole succession of grabs at Chinese territory. That in turn stirred civil
war in China.
Since greater moderation has
been shown by Russia this time
and since Japan is no longer a
threat, the great powers will no
longer regard China as fair
game for exploitation. And
China, thus secured, can labor
on the long road toward self-
sufficiency and independence.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.