The Task
Facing Dewey
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Gov. Dewey has returned to
his job in New York in the face
of pretty cloudy political weather.
The State organization on
which his re-election in 1946 must
depend is not in good shape.
State Chairman Edwin F. Jacckle
has resigned, and there is great
doubt as to whether he will reconsider. Party leaders say that
there is no one in sight suitable
to fill Mr. Jacckle's shoes. Herbert Brownell Jr. has not decided
whether he will continue as national chairman. A good deal of
feeling exists that the Dewey
vote up-State in this election did
not materialize because the organization there just did not perform. People close to the situation view Gov. Dewey's chances
of re-election in 1946 as somewhat impaired, to say the least.
But this situation can quickly
clear up. Mr. Dewey has done a
good job as Governor. He has a
co-operative Legislature. The
Democratic machine is not in the
best of shape.
HURT FEELINGS
The Jaeckle situation is troublesome. Neither Mr. Dewey nor
Mr. Jacckle has talked about it,
but there seems to be no doubt
that behind the Jacckle resignation was a considerable amount
of hurt feelings. Mr. Jaeckle is
that solid sort of man who, when
he is hurt, is not easily cured.
Apparently he was not particularly eager to be national chairman and readily agreed to the
selection of Mr. Brownell. But
when, following that, a State
campaign manager was selected
by Mr. Dewey who did not have
the full approval of Mr. Jacckle,
he was deeply offended. Nor was
his advice on tactics taken very
seriously during the campaign.
Everyone says that Mr. Jacckle
worked valiantly and loyally to
win, but when it was all over
he quietly turned in his badge.
This is not the kind of thing that
puts spirit into county organizations over the State.
BROWNEL'S SPHERE
In the national organization
the resignation of Chairman
Brownell would most certainly
precipitate a drive to select a successor from the Middle West
where Republican election
strength was greatest. To select
one from there would greatly
weaken Mr. Dewey's influence in
the party. Some of the Republican Governors have ambitions of
their own, and Mr. Dewey's influence over Republican Congressmen and Senators is not
too strong. It looks as if Mr.
Dewey's control of his party depends on his ability to persuade
Mr. Brownell to stay.
It will also depend on something else. The selection of candidates for 1948 is far in the future. But the careful building
up of the Republican organization needs to be started without
delay. Every good observer
recognizes that future Republican success depends on a strong
organization to offset the P.A.C.
throughout the nation. Leadership in that job rests squarely
on Mr. Dewey. He is the head
of the "loyal opposition." All
questions of candidates in 1948,
even his own possible candidacy,
are subordinate to party unity.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.