German
Fairy Tales
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
There is a good deal of meaning in the fact that so many writers of fairy stories have been Germans. Fairy-story writing pays there because the Germans love them so dearly. Scrape off the fierce fighting qualities, the scientific achievements of the Germans and there appears the gullible child. Goebbels knows this well, which is why he has been so successful a propagandist. His recent speech is excellent evidence of it. It is, for the purpose, a masterpiece of fiction for children. The Fuehrer was saved by a miracle, said he: He, Goebbels, had visited the scene. No ordinary man could have stood in the boots of the Fuehrer and yet have escaped death. The bomb was at his feet. Other people were blown out the windows. "Providence," he concluded, "had taken the Fuehrer under his gracious protection."
Goebbels recalled to the myth-clouded German mind Albrecht Durer's story of the "Knight Against Death and the Devil."
TERRIFIC RAGE'
Since the way to tell stories to children is to create the illusion that they thought, of something like it first, the narrator then said that the attack had put the German people into a terrific rage. His mail showed this, he added. And the devil was a group of evil Germans—decadent, envious and traitorous. The Goebbels version was thought up only after a number of less skillful Nazis had told another story. They said that the attack was not serious, that it was the expression of a Moscow idea and that it employed a British bomb. The Goebbels version was slicker. The plot was serious, it was German, and the Lord had saved the Fuehrer. This is better fiction.
The Goebbels story moves its German hearers into an ecstasy of belief in a magical means of victory. The V-1 robot has been revealed. The V-2 is suggested. But other marvels are to come.
ANOTHER FABLE
It is a pity that Allied propaganda could not have followed Goebbels on the air with another fable from the German. Goethe wrote a famous poem, based upon one of the tales of a medieval Dutch-German book, "Reinecke Fox." The wicked fox was on the ladder, about to be hanged. Before him was King Lion, his judge. Suddenly Herr Fox remarked casually, "It is a pity that His Majesty will lose all that gold." "What gold?" asked the lion. "Two miles west of Venlo is a big oak tree and under the tree a fortune is buried." The Chancellor said that he knew not only Venlo, but the oak tree as well. The King halted the execution. The fox escaped, free to continue his sinful career.
And so Goebbels tells the German people of V-1. That is "Venlo." He also hints at an "oak tree," named V-2. The "fortune" is yet to come. The fox, meanwhile, has a stay of execution.
That is the way with a nation with children's souls in grown-up bodies.
Released by Associated Newspapers.