Remember that Germany is listening, too, to all this talk about the Willkie withdrawal. And unfortunately some of the talk I have heard is made to order for Goebbels. A very wise man, who lived in Germany until 10 years ago, served in high public office there and fought in the first World War, makes this private observation: "The real hope of Hitler now is that the United States will get tired of war. If the withdrawal of Willkie can be interpreted as an antiwar vote, Goebbels will make the point that if the Germans hold out until Nov. 7 they will get easier terms." I quote this now to anticipate what may be screamed all over the country in the campaign ahead of us. For this is the time to get over to the German people that neither the defeat of Mr. Willkie nor the defeat of Mr. Roosevelt will mean what Goebbels will try to make them mean. SIMPLE FORMULA The way to frustrate Goebbels' argument is simple: First, the candidates who are still running can make clear again their implacable determination to beat Germany and Japan. That applies specifically to Governors Dewey and Bricker, since the position of MacArthur and Stassen, who are serving in the war, can be taken for granted. It should be said that a war prosecuted by Mr. Dewey, terror of the gangsters, would be a fierce and tireless affair. Also, let the truth be told of Mr. Bricker, known to the people of Ohio as a steady, clear-headed, forceful and experienced executive. He is likewise an enemy from whom Hitler can expect no mercy. This must be made known in no uncertain terms. Both Governors have, of course, sworn again and again their devotion to the complete defeat of Germany and Japan. Both of them will make speeches in New York this month on foreign relations and they might well repeat the refrain of complete victory. But, alone, they cannot get this over to Germany. Messrs. Willkie and Roosevelt have an obligation on this score. It was unfortunate Mr. Willkie should have implied in his statement of withdrawal that his defeat in Wisconsin was related to isolationism. He should correct that statement by making it clear that those who are now headed for the nomination want to prosecute this war just as vigorously as he does. Differences of opinion about the postwar world are not differences in the determination to blast Germany and Japan. A NATIONAL ISSUE The major responsibility to get this over to Germany rests upon Mr. Roosevelt, who directs all American propaganda going into enemy countries. He should direct the O.W.I. and all other agencies concerned to drive home to the enemy the fact that the Republicans who are seeking the nomination are just as determined to beat the enemy as he is.