Raymond Moley
-TRUMAN AND BUSINESS
After the mountain of comment about the new picture in Washington has been published, the time comes to comment on comment.
The comment that has appeared itself may so influence President Truman and those around him that his course of action—his immediate course of action at any rate—may be such as to make certain conclusions turn out to be false. He is a shrewd man, and such of his advisers as James F. Byrnes are extraordinarily shrewd.
They know, for example, that there will be an assumption in certain reactionary quarters that some red lights will now turn green. They also know that if conspicuous radicals are swiftly ejected from high place there will be so disastrous a split in the party that the Republicans will be able to win with ease.
CAUTION IS WATCHWORD
Finally they know that if there is too disgraceful a rush of political bosses into the White House pantry, there will be screams of protest, investigations and scandals. So it is best to note that there are some very smart politicians close to the President. Note next that the first principle of politics is not to do the obvious.
It is, therefore, a good guess that radical changes in policies and personnel will not come soon. They did not come quickly when T.R. succeeded McKinley or when Coolidge succeeded Harding. Caution will be the watchword for a while.
BUSINESS ATTITUDE
That caution will be especially noteworthy in the new administration’s attitude toward economic questions, which is a subject of concern to all businessmen in these critical days.
It is, though, fair to believe that the new President’s decisions will be governed by the eternal characteristics of human nature. The safest assumption is that the philosophy of President Truman will be what the youthful Harry S. Truman brought with him to the Senate of the United States. There will be no time in the crowded life ahead for him to reorient himself mentally now. The basic philosophy he brought to the Senate is that no government, no bold experimentation at the top, no esoteric thinking by “forward” thinkers can change the basic current of American life.
HIS PREJUDICES
We can call that individualism, if we wish. It means that somehow people have to make their way on their own. But there are prejudices, such as a distrust of big business and big labor, in that philosophy.
Monopoly, to those who think like President Truman, is something with horns and a tail. To attack it makes votes, although attacks are never inspired by a clear comprehension of its precise meaning.
Mr. Truman is a professed, a professional friend of small business. He probably believes that monopolistic big business in the East is determined to shut down Midwestern plants to prevent competition. And he is likely to ally himself with that very considerable wing of political action which intends to keep industry distributed about as it has been during the war. That will mean a politically determined distribution, with something for all the competing States.
REPUTATION AS CRITIC
Further on the economic side of his thinking, it must be noted that his reputation was made as a critic of business. His Senate war expenditures committee had a good deal to say about bad coordination in government. Chiefly, its activity was to see that private enterprise did not make a killing in war production. It is likely that the new President’s attitude will be somewhat suspicious of business for the time.
On the positive side, so far as business is concerned, is Mr. Truman’s honest disposition, to assume that business must be permitted to make profits, to assume that the pattern of free enterprise is to remain and to believe that the war controls must be removed as soon as military needs are no longer pressing. There will certainly be no disposition in Mr. Truman to create a new kind of economic life out of the necessary controls of war. That is why conservatism will be the major drift, although the trend will be cautious, slow and, in many respects, troublesome.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.