Russia's Real
Peace Aims
-BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Since we must learn to get on
with Soviet Russia in the world,
whatever our suspicions may
be, our concern should be to understand what kind of peace
she wants to make. That should
not be difficult, because the outlines of Russian foreign policy
are already appearing through
the smoke of victorious battles.
While our purposes and those
of Great Britain are still couched
in the vague terms of a preamble of a peace constitution
Russia is handing out specific
bylaws.
Take for example the terms
she has offered Finland. In
these terms Russia seems fairly indifferent about boundaries.
Even the provision for the internment of German troops is
a temporary war measure. Probably what worries the thrifty
Finns is the demand for reparations. That is, especially in the
modern Russian manner. It reveals clearly what Russia will
demand when Germany is haled
into court.
BASIC IDEAS
Basic economic ideas for the
Soviet Foreign Office are worked
out by what is known as the
"World Economic Institute." At
the head of this is a very able
economist, Eugene Varga. Mr.
Varga, a Hungarian by birth,
has been an official Soviet economist for more than 20 years.
He has thus remained in Stalin's favor through a long period while generals, commissars and others by the dozen
were being liquidated. Because
we have had occasional intimations of Varga's policies, it is
not hard to ascribe the Finnish
terms to him.
The terms provide for the
payment by Finland to Russia
of the equivalent of $640,000,000. The Russians want no
Finnish money. The settlement
is to be in lumber, pulp, paper
and machinery. If this demand
is in line with what Varga has
said previously concerning possible German terms, it would
call for payment in 10 installments. This payment of some
$64,000,000 a year would be the
equivalent of about what 65,000
Finnish laborers would earn in
a year.
MAJOR AIM
This is an example of the Soviet economy as applied to peace
terms. In Russia values are determined in terms of labor.
Money is incidental. Since, under the Russian system, there is
no problem of unemployment
and there are no labor unions
demanding priority on jobs
there is no problem of the competition of manufactured goods
from abroad with Russian production.
A vast country, largely undeveloped and partially devastated, needs for postwar purposes
millions of workers and unlimited goods of all kinds. The
fear of Russian territorial aggrandizement is not well founded.
Nor is the fear of serious
extensions of Communist propaganda. For years Russia will
need goods and labor, and she
will make that a major demand
upon defeated enemies.
That is her major peace aim.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.