Roosevelts
and Spain
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
If the many keepers of the international applecart can't make
up their minds where they are
going, the fruit may be rolling
in the street before snowfall.
The Democrats were all ready to
make a campaign on the issue
that Mr. Roosevelt is the only
American who can get on with
Mr. Churchill. But before long,
Republicans may be able to ask
for Mr. Roosevelt's defeat because he can't get on with our
Allies.
Even Mrs. Roosevelt is all
atwitter over Mr. Churchill's recent reference to Spain, although it might have been hoped
that the First Lady would refrain from interfering with the
many makers of American foreign policy.
The religious dissenters had a
theory of individual choice, described by some of them as the
right of every man to be his
own Pope. Mrs. Roosevelt seems
to believe that everyone can be
his own or her own Secretary
of State.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
We have been led to believe
that in this war Mr. Churchill's
speeches are useful to Mr. Roosevelt, and vice versa. Can it be
that this happy arrangement no
longer exists? Certainly, Mr.
Roosevelt's comments are intended to mean that Mr. Churchill's
friendly references to Spain do
not represent the President's
opinions.
But a good case can be made
for the view that Mr. Churchill
thought that his remarks were
in line with the policies of our
State Department. Mr. Churchill could say that, despite the attacks of our left-wing press, the
State Department has been successfully pursuing a friendly policy toward Franco. The quick
conquest of North Africa was
helped by that policy. The freeing of the Mediterranean for the
passage of our troops to Italy
was promoted by it. And there
are other good reasons, which
the State Department properly
cannot reveal, for England and
America to support pro-Spanish
policies.
THE VITAL THING
Another consideration which
weighs against Mr. and Mrs.
Roosevelt and favors Messrs.
Churchill and Hull is equally
important. That is the vital
necessity of getting three of Hitler's satellites out of the war.
These three—Hungary, Bulgaria
and Romania—are, like Spain,
dictatorships. If they quit, the
defeat of Germany will be hastened, and countless lives will be
saved.
The thing that must be remembered about cracking these satellites is that, while the current
dictators—Horthy, Prince Cyril
and Antonescu—cannot be expected to make peace, the people
in those countries who will
rise when present dictators fall
will be dictator-minded people
like our old friend Badoglio. And
such intermediate people will be
more likely to come over to the
Allies if they see in British-
American policy a disposition to
make terms with anyone who
promises to shorten the war.
Perhaps the clamor of the left
wingers kept Mr. and Mrs. Roosevelt from realizing that.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.