The Men Around Gov. Dewey Adolf's Party
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Gov. Dewey, or anyone else
who is nominated by the Republicans, will face an unprecedented job of campaigning. And
preparations for a campaign are
not made in a day. The policies
that are presented in speeches
must be thought out. Speeches
must be prepared and people
who can supply the candidate
quickly with all the answers
must be tied into his retinue.
Such a setup is not easily secured.
In 1940, Mr. Wiffkte failed
lamentably to equip himself for
the ordeal. How is Dewey fixed
this time? Excellently, if we
can judge by the quality of
those who are advising him now.
MILITARY ADVISER
Since the conduct of the war
may well be a big issue, the New
York Governor has foresight-
edly provided himself with a
commanding general of the New
York Guard who has a comprehensive firsthand knowledge of
military affairs. He is Lt. Gen.
Hugh A. Drum, retired. Gen.
Drum is a soldier's soldier. His
experience runs back to the
Spanish-American War. He
came close to appointment as
Chief of Staff when Gen. Marshall was named. With Gen.
Drum around, Gov. Dewey will
make few campaign mistakes
about that big field of public
policy which lives behind the
military effort.
In foreign affairs, Gov. Dewey
is equally well prepared. His
favorite adviser on that subject
is John Foster Dulles, grandson
of John W. Foster, who was
Benjamin Harrison's Secretary
of State and one of the great
American authorities on foreign
affairs. Mr. Dulles also is a
nephew by marriage of Secretary of State Robert Lansing.
Mr. Dulles' experience in international affairs has been varied
and important. His views are
not those of an extreme internationalist, but he has a constructive attitude toward international action. He was responsible for the postwar program
of the Federal Council of the
Churches of Christ in America.
No candidate could ask for a
more competent adviser than
Mr. Dulles.
USING OLD HEADS
In addition, the Governor has
the expert service of Elliott V.
Bell, a highly gifted economist
and writer, who was at Mr.
Dewey's right hand in the pre-
convention campaign in 1940 and
in his 1942 campaign for Governor.
Paul Lockwood, the Governor's secretary, is far more important in the Dewey picture
than his title indicates. He is
sage and experienced in the art
of politics.
There are many others around
the Governor who know the
ways of a campaign. Mr. Roosevelt, if he runs (and if Mr.
Dewey runs,) will face an experienced, resourceful team of
campaigners. They will make
a powerful case for a change in
administration. Dewey is young,
but he knows how to use old
heads.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.