Raymond Moley—
The first winter after a Presidential election is "hot stove league" time in politics, but the former Republican Presidential candidate, Thomas E. Dewey, has been busy. The legislative session in Albany, now finished, was an unhappy one, Gov. Dewey kept control, but the Republican members went home in no particularly happy frame of mind. They will recover and swing loyally behind Gov. Dewey when he runs for re-election in 1948 no doubt.
There is considerable disquiet among the leaders of the Republican party all over the State. This is not unusual when a strong Governor in Albany is running things.
IT'S ALWAYS THE SAME
The boys complain about patronage and about the Governor's appointment of nonpolitical people in key jobs. An experienced political reporter has heard such complaints before. That's how party leaders talked about Grover Cleveland when he was Governor of New York years ago. T. R. was very troublesome to Tom Platt, the State boss at the turn of the century. Gov. Charles Evans Hughes was likewise at odds with Boss Barnes. Even Al Smith had political trouble.
POLITICAL ANGLES
In the session just ended, the most publicized piece of legislation was the antidiscrimination bill. It passed finally in substantially the form in which it was introduced. Gov. Dewey gave it strong support, aided by powerful lobbies from minority groups.
The history of this bill has
GOV. DEWEY'S FORTUNES
very important political overtones. New York has many laws against discrimination of all sorts. But this bill provides against discrimination in private employment because of "race, creed, color or national origin."
A State war council, created before Mr. Dewey took office, had a committee on discrimination in employment which used persuasion and conciliation to prevent discrimination in war industries. This committee proposed a bill in 1944, but since the end of the legislative session was near, Gov. Dewey recommended in its stead the creation of a temporary commission to investigate and to present a new bill in the 1945 session.
CHANCES HURT
No doubt from a political point of view this action of Gov. Dewey seriously injured his chance to carry New York in 1944. His motives were unjustly attacked by exponents of such legislation.
But he can now say that he has specifically delivered the goods as he promised a year ago.
The new bill will be administered by a commission of five, to be appointed by the Governor before July 1. The Governor will have plenty of worry about the personnel of this commission, and when it is installed it will have serious problems of administration.
EXPECTING TOO MUCH?
Under the bill, complaints filed must be investigated and then passed upon by the commission. If the complaint is justified, the commission issues a "cease and desist" order. If this order is violated, penal provisions enter the picture. Judicial review is provided, however.
If this measure proves workable, Gov. Dewey's prestige in the nation will be enhanced. He has met a serious problem without hedging. Yet the real test lies ahead because this law enters an unexplored field and its advocates may expect too much, too soon.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.