The New 'Boss'-the Voter
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
CHICAGO, June 30.—This
piece is written to explain something
about an unfeatured actor in the
convention play just ended. That
actor is the average delegate—a
sort of political equivalent to G. I.
Joe. He is a politician, either by
profession or avocation. He probably
comes from the seat of one of our
3000 counties. He is much like the
average voters among whom he works
except in one particular. He views
voters with enough detachment to
anticipate their moods. He must do
that or he ceases to be a politician.
But being an average American he
hates to be bossed, He has to be
bossed sometimes, but he does not
like it. When he is bossed too directly,
when he is pushed around, he does
not always complain. Mostly he obeys
but takes his satisfaction in some
indirect way like getting tight or
cheering for something or somebody
not identified with his bosses. He
just throws his weight around a
little.
VOTERS DO IT
There have been many bossed
conventions and this was one of
them. In the old days conventions
were bossed by men in smoke-filled
rooms. In 1936 and in 1910 the boss
was in the White House and Mr.
Average Delegate in the more recent
of these years cheered for Farley because
the boss had not been good to Farley
and he beefed about Wallace because
the boss had been good to Wallace.
In the Republican convention in
1910 another strange sort of composite
boss appeared and the average delegate,
somewhat bewildered, bowed his head
and obeyed. He was not quite clear
about the identity of the composite
thing that gave him the orders but it
called itself the voice of the people and
it spoke through thousands of telegrams,
and long distance calls. It also had
hundreds of gallery tickets and made a
terrific racket. Later on the average
delegate was not so sure about the voice
of the people but it was too late then,
and as he labored on to the end of the
campaign he wondered.
In the convention just ended a new
boss appeared, the voter himself.
Whenever the voter had a chance to
express himself, in Wisconsin, Nebraska,
Pennsylvania, and in private polls, he
pointedly told his delegate that he
wanted the young man in Albany.
Never in our time has a popular choice
been so forcibly indicated. The delegate
could not object because he could see,
plain as day, that Dewey was an
authentic vote-getter. But he felt a
little let down to have the voters take
things in their own hands. And he was
a bit irritated because Dewey would not
ask for delegate support and thus open
the way to profitable negotiations.
BRICKER'S NAMING
And so in the momentous doings of
Wednesday the delegates, fully recognizing
the clear logic of nominating Dewey,
found a means of letting the world know
that they were doing something that no
one had told them to do. They decided
to nominate Bricker for Vice-President
and they did so with genuine enthusiasm.
It is well that they did so, for they have
a fine ticket and they can now go back
home and go to work with a will. Mr.
Average Delegate's mind and judgment
are all for Dewey but his heart belongs
to Bricker. The high spot in Dewey's
speech was the wild applause which
followed the candidate's tribute to
Bricker. Bricker deserved the ovations
that he received because he proved
himself every inch a man and statesman.
When he said to the convention that he
was more interested in defeating absolutism
in America than "in personally being
President of the United States," he was
repeating what I, for one, have heard
him say in private a dozen times in the
past year. He is a man of towering
intellectual integrity. The nation now
knows what Ohio has known a long time.
To know John Bricker is good medicine for
people who have lived through long and
cynical years.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.
Further reproduction prohibited without permission.