The Texas
Electors
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Expect loud screams from New
Dealers to the effect that majority rule is being suppressed
by the legal methods adopted by
Texas and other States to control the actions of their Presidential electors, notwithstanding
the action of the Democratic
convention in Chicago in selecting candidates and in adopting
a platform. This process will
bring to the surface certain distinctions and constitutional
rights all but unknown to this
generation.
For purposes of the Texas argument, we may waive broad
propositions about the nature of
majority rule. The majority
does not, in fact, rule in this
republic nor in any other nation
in the world. Majority decisions
of various kinds are involved in
government, but the process by
which decisions are made, as
well as the processes by which
government is carried on, are
determined by law.
TWO FUNCTIONS
In the Texas case, the 23 persons nominated as electors by
the State Democratic Convention will be electors only after
they are selected by the voters
in November. They will thus be
authorized by the State to which
they belong to cast the vote of
the State in the Electoral College. But since there is no provision by which the voters of
the State can express a choice
directly for the Presidential candidates selected in Chicago, the
electors can claim they are free
to vote as they choose in the
Electoral College. This disposes
of the question whether the
electors are bound by any expressed majority of the Texas
voters.
The convention which chose
Texas’ 23 Democratic electors
last week had two functions:
to select delegates to the party
convention in Chicago and to
nominate electors for the Democratic November ballot.
In September a State convention will be held in Texas. That
convention will have certain
functions relating to the State
ticket, the State platform, and
other party matters. Apparently,
it cannot overturn the action of
the convention last week. It
can “memorialize” the electors
to the effect that they should
support the Democratic candidate for President but it cannot
“instruct” them.
WHAT IT MEANS
The many legal aspects of the
case will be endlessly explored
and aired. But at this writing
it would seem that only psychological influence, based upon the
assertion of the pro-Roosevelt
Texans that the people who vote
in November will be choosing
between the two candidates of
the national parties, and that
they expect the electors to perform in the accustomed manner,
can actually operate to any effect. This pressure can, of
course, be very great, despite
the legal freedom of the electors
to do as they choose.
The revolt which originated
in Texas may well spread. In
Louisiana and Arkansas some
similar pattern may be followed.
South Carolina seems determined to be heard at the Chicago convention, although its
revolt was not organized on the
same lines as the revolt in Texas.
Whatever happens in this controversy over electors, its net
effect upon the chances of Mr.
Roosevelt’s success in November
will be injurious. The incongruous nature of his party support will be emphasized. The
class nature of his following in
the north will be underscored.
There is a chance that in States
like Texas and Oklahoma the
internal quarrel in his party
will swing things over to the
Republican candidate.
Copyright, 1944, Chicago Journal of
Commerce Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.