Democratic leaders in the Senate and the, House would have been unable to prevent a Congressional inquiry into the Pearl Harbor disaster, even if the President also had vigorously opposed an Investigation. But since the Senate and House are Democratic, the initial setup of the investigation committee could be decided by those leaders. And they have decided that the committee shall be numerically weighted in favor of Democrats. This is unfortunate from the standpoint of the national interest in 'the matter at issue. It may prove to have been bad politics, as well.
DEMOCRATIC ADMISSION
It is an admission by Democratic leaders that such an investigation must, of necessity, be political and that ultimate decisions must be controlled by a Democratic majority on the committee. It is an affirmation that this issue, like taxation or labor policy or public works, is something that must be decided by a counting of noses. Let us see what effect this partisan method of selecting the committee may have. If the findings are that President Roosevelt and the members of his Cabinet were without blame, and if those findings are true as holy writ, such findings will always be impaired in history, since they were found by a politically selected committee.
OTHER POSSIBILITIES
If it be found that blame is to be attached to President Roosevelt and/or to the members of his Cabinet, Republicans will claim that they forced a committee controlled by Democrats so to find. If, as may be possible, a majority and a minority report are issued on the basis of different theories of blame, the whole issue goes to the country where it will be the subject of partisan controversy for a generation. It is not sufficient for Son. Lucas to promise that the counsel will be above reproach and above politics. The committee, not the counsel, will set the tone of the inquiry.
NOT ENCOURAGING
The personnel of the committee is not encouraging. Sen. Barkley is the politically chosen party leader of the Senate. Sen. Lucas is a New Deal regular. Sen. George is a very busy man with the gigantic load of national finances on his shoulders. The Democratic House members have never shown marked independence. On the Republican side, Sen. Ferguson and Rep. Keefe are able investigators, but with the general setup as it is, they will be Republican, rather than non-partisan investigators.
POLITICAL ISSUE
This issue thus becomes political. We shall get a lot of new information, and little will remain secret after the case is tried. We can all agree with Speaker Rayburn, who said: "It is to be hoped that there will be no politics involved, but there is a big but." In the circumstances, both sides will get what political advantages there are available. But it deserves to be said that Candidate Dewey and National Chairman Brownell decided not to make a political issue of Pearl Harbor in 1944. They did this because, as lawyers, they knew that they did not have the facts which the administration had carefully guarded. They declined to seek votes on the basis of gossip and surmise. But no such reluctance will characterize Republican strategy from here on. The public will have to get what it can from highly prejudiced advocates.