Raymond Moley _ DOES CONGRESS NEED A REST?
Congress, especially that section known as the House of Representatives, wants to have a vacation from July 10 to September.
This looks like a good idea. Evidence is piling up which shows that fatigue and frayed nerves are playing tricks with Congressional behavior and judgment. Then why should not our lawmakers call things off, cool off and come back with fresh ways of doing things?
Absenteeism in Congress is pronounced. Important debates are drawing only three or four dozen House members and as few as six Senators. During the debate in the House on the epoch-making Bretton Woods proposal, there were seldom more than 100 members present.
HIT-OR-MISS METHOD
In the face of rapacious demands for appropriations by the bureaus, Congress has little information to enable it to make cuts wisely. Usually that is done simply by guessing at a number. Although there was strong feeling against the O.W.I., about all the information the House had to go on was provided by the O.W.I. itself. So it guessed at $18,000,000—a cut of about half the amount asked for.
Obviously, the O.W.I. is not just half good. But the House had nothing exact to guide it.
AN EXAMPLE CITED
When the remaining portion of the war agencies bill came before the House subcommittee for action, four of the seven members of the majority were absent. Two majority House members were substituted. These substitutes had heard none of the testimony. The testimony on the bill covered 1300 pages, but only half was available. But the subcommittee couldn't wait. So the bill was disposed of in two hours and 35 minutes.
The fumbling of the pay and expense-raising questions was most unfortunate. Instead of a frank attack on the salary question, the House proposed an increase of $2500 in members' expense money. The Senators rejected this increase for themselves but voted it for House members.
Then President Truman tried to get the subject back on the beam by suggesting a forthright raise in salary. Now there is proposed an increase in both Senate and House salaries from $10,000 to $20,000 a year. There is real justice in this proposal. But the fumbling and political fear which have characterized the entire procedure have beclouded the issue and nothing may be done.
Congressmen who have seen long service deserve a pension on retirement. This is not only justice for good public servants but a means of retiring old and worn-out members. Political cowardice has held back further action on the subject.
MACHINE CREAKS
Dozens of proposals have been made to improve the organization and administration of Congress. Many of these have been suggested by intelligent Congressmen themselves. But old and inadequate methods prevail. The legislative machine creaks at every joint.
Congress might well take a holiday. But before it does that it might provide a joint committee of the houses to work on methods of improving Congress itself. Since war calls for sacrifice, Congress might temporarily face the political consequences of providing adequate salaries, better research services for its committees and a more rational organization of its business.
IT'S EXPENSIVE NOW
President Truman seems to have the courage to move resolutely into the jungle of executive agencies. Congress can help by reconstructing itself.
A poorly paid and miserably organized Congress is expensive in these days of billion dollar spending.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.