Although this commentator claims no Delphian gifts, no Haruspex's Inside track to the prophetic entrails of animals, he begs to differ from many of his fellow know-it-alls who predict that the Labor victory in England will be followed by a leftist trend in America. I may be wrong in this, as I confess I have been on some past occasions. But there are several important circumstances which point to no great change in American trends, despite the landslide against the British Conservatives. History says that British and American political trends run in opposite directions. When, on Jan. 8, 1924, the Labor party first took charge of the House of Commons, the United States was enjoying the first stages of the Coolidge era. The great boom was starting, and even the Democrats, three months later, nominated the conservative John W. Davis. The Labor crowd tumbled from power later that year, largely because of entanglements with Communist Russia. While we were electing Republicans everywhere and the great boom grew to fantastic proportions, the British Conservatives were struggling with serious labor troubles. In mid-1929, the Labor party again took over. Hoover was enjoying his honeymoon era. Our turn to the left began with a Democratic Congress in 1930, and the rise of the candidacy of Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1931 and 1932. In 1931, the Conservatives came back in a big way under the Nationalist banner, with Ramsay MacDonald as figurehead. In 1935 the Roosevelt administration had moved from the mild to the wild period of reform. The summer of that year saw the President riding herd on Congress, lambasting business and generally competing with Huey Long for extreme leftist support. Meanwhile, Britain went to the polls late in the year and gave itself a Conservative majority which lasted 10 years. History is not always an infallible guide, but that is what it says. The present mood of the United States portends anything but a swing to the left. The government is struggling with the need of getting out of war socialism, rather than increasing its burdens. Reconversion is our major domestic problem. We are still at war. Vast international questions are in the spotlight. Everybody is working, and money is more plentiful than goods. This is not good ground for the seeds of reform. Neither are the keymen selected by President Truman the sowers of wild grass. The leftists over here will talk in tall terms about the British omen. But they are so short on omens these days that any light in their skies is welcome. Finally, we shall see a troubled Labor party at work. There simply isn't the money in England to fulfill Labor's promises. None of the controlling Labor party leaders is an innovator of the Roosevelt type. Labor's left wing, of which Laski is the articulate voice, will not be happy. We may be hearing more of their troubles than of their triumphs. No. This is no signal for a new American New Deal.