Raymond Moley
As the map of Germany is being rolled up, her conquests and satellites become a United Nations problem in feeding and otherwise helping. But while we are on the giving end of the feeding, it is only fair that the others do some of the helping.
The Netherlands, to cite one of the best examples, is a nation of about 9,000,000. Its territory has been ravaged by water and fire, but few countries have lost so few men.
An army of some hundreds of thousands might be raised there. Most of these men were trained in the Dutch army before the war. They are highly literate. They are no farther from their rich colonies in the East Indies than are our own armies in Europe. They might well be used to clear out the Japs who, no doubt, are well fed and housed in the Asiatic Netherlands.
No bones are being made in the United States in both official and unofficial circles about the prospective morale problem in moving American veterans of the European war to the Pacific after Germany is finished. When a soldier has won a war, something goes out of him. He wants to go home. The cold-blooded military book tells us in no uncertain terms that a soldier warmed up the second time is not a good soldier. The point on the side of justice is that while the war against Japan should require the services of whatever American troops are necessary, Americans should be supplemented by the greatest possible number of men from countries with vital interests in the Far East. This applies with heavy emphasis to the Dutch.
It also applies to the French so far as Indo-China is concerned and to the British so far as Malaya and Burma are involved.
If the equipping and training of the Dutch takes a little time, it should be taken. The Dutch East Indies are now substantially isolated. Their capture would have little bearing on the defeat of Japan.
It is time we made very clear what we intend to keep in the Pacific. We probably should permit interested allies to regain their possessions there, but the strategic islands are another matter. There has been fuzzy international talk of placing historic spots like Iwo, Salpan, Kwajalein and others under some form of international trusteeship. Such a suggestion is outrageous. To press that idea is the surest way to turn Americans back to isolationism.
Admiral of the Fleet Ernest J. King, in his recently released annual report, speaks true American sentiment on this point when he says:
"Failure to maintain these bases essential for our defense raises the fundamental question—how long can the United States afford to continue a cycle of fighting and building and winning and giving away, only to fight and build and win and give away again? Rich as we are, we do not have the human or physical resources to dissipate our patrimony, generation after generation, in this manner."