Raymond Moley —CHINESE PUZZLE
Gen. Marshall's Chinese mission is one of the most critical and difficult ever undertaken by an American. It will not be solved by a simple peace between Chiang Kai-shek and the Communists. For that is only a part of the Chinese puzzle.
President Truman thought it wise to mention twice in his statement why American troops are still in China. In one place he said that American marines are in North China for the purpose of disarming the Japanese. In another part of his statement he said that American military and naval forces are there for the purpose of seeing that Japanese influence in China is wholly removed.
PLENTY OF LEEWAY
There is plenty of leeway in this condition and it may be assumed that when the matter comes down to loans the removal of American troops will be arranged with a sigh of relief on both sides.
There is a great so-called liberal movement in China, which the leaders claim is based on the tradition of the great Dr. Sun Yat-sen. The apparent head of this group is Sun Fo, the son of Dr. Sun Yat-sen.
SUN FO'S ROLE
It is claimed that 90 per cent of literate Chinese belong to this group, including most of the intellectual leaders and believers in republican institutions. The coalition government to which President Truman referred in his statement should include representatives of this group, with Sun Fo in a position of high importance.
This element seems to represent a latent sentiment rather than a political party. Its political ideas lean toward a democratically chosen national assembly to which the executive government would be responsible. Its philosophy is not military, but leans toward traditional Chinese pacifism, coupled with boycotts and other bloodless methods of resisting outside pressure. It holds Japanese culture in great contempt. It is also antiwestern.
PLEAS BY STUDENTS
It may well be that the rioting of Chinese students, now being reported, springs from this liberal movement. A report by A. T. Steele to the New York Herald Tribune tells of the pleas made by these students that American soldiers get out of China: "U.S. soldiers, go home, please. You see wife longing for you. Don't you want to see your parents? Quit China, dear U.S. soldiers. Let China take care of own affairs."
LACK OF CONFIDENCE
The union of the Communists and Chiang in 1923, in which Russian diplomacy was very active, has been called the second stage of the Chinese revolution. Following three years of unity, Chiang Kai-shek split with the Communists, and the Kuomintang was established in 1926. The Kuomintang is government by one party. Even Sun Fo is a member.
The growing lack of confidence toward the western powers is revealing itself in many places in China.
HARDLY REASSURING
An American's report from Shanghai says: "One of the most disquieting changes is the attitude of old Chinese friends who used to stick their necks out for us. Today they are reluctant, ill at ease. Pressed for a promise or a statement they say, 'Listen, my friend. In a few months American troops will be gone. There isn't any international concession any more. When you are gone, where will your friends like us be? When?'"
When it becomes dangerous to be known as a friend of the United States, the situation can hardly be regarded as reassuring.