To anyone who knows Andrew Jackson Higgins, the news of his determination to close up shop is no surprise. Mr. Higgins is a man of impulse, of something close to imaginative genius, of boundless energy and ambition. To close the books on an ambition is no hardship for such a personality. His vivid genius can open a dozen others. This impasse with the A.F.L. is not only the end of a manufacturing project, but probably of a political one as well. Friends of Mr. Higgins in 1942 and 1943 were talking about what a "natural" he, with his unparalleled alliance with the A.F.L., would be for a political career, even for President. This dream is gone. But a man who has gone through the Higgins experiences will emerge with unexpected plans. He has lost his businesses before, but those failures were due to depressions. In 1942 he startled the country with his plans to carry out a 200-ship contract. The government canceled this contract, but President Roosevelt personally supervised a substitute in the shape of an assignment to build plywood planes. I was in New Orleans and saw him in both years. He was resilient as the bottoms of his Eureka boats or as the new form of plywood that he planned for his planes. Then, after he had got into the foothills of the plane business, aluminum became more plentiful, and another dream went up in smoke. Higgins can always build good boats for river traffic, for speed, for pleasure, for South America and North America. His future need not concern us. He will account for that. It may well be, however, that this extraordinary man has timed his dramatic severance from the A.F.L. and the Democratic administration at a moment when he will ride a great popular wave of approval. But I should be a poor judge of the consistency of Mr. Higgins, as well as a poor friend of industrial peace and of American business, if I failed to suggest caution to other businessmen in following his example. This is a moment for more and still more efforts for a mutual understanding and for an increase in the production of the things this country needs.