The administration's full-employment bill proposes to have the President and his advisers predict industrial conditions 18 months ahead. But at this moment it is clear that the administration, a month ago, was unable to see 31 days ahead. That is the outstanding and troublesome thing about this wave of unemployment.
UNEXPECTED THINGS Let's sum up the things that the administration did not expect: It did not expect that the unemployment which it predicted would be so largely voluntary. It did not expect that so many workers would choose to spend their savings on strikes. It did not see that the greatest danger of inflation would come from the suppression by union labor of the production of things to buy while demands were made to increase money in circulation through increased wages. It did not suggest, nor did it probably believe, that there would be many more applicants for unemployment benefits than workers laid off. Never have so many jobs been offered unsuccessfully to so many idle. We have unemployment, but it is not the result of depressed industry. Nor did anyone in Washington ton seem to anticipate that there would be no feeling of depression anywhere. If Washington did, it would not have been so eager to provide unemployment benefits of $25 a week. The administration guessed that it would have plenty of time to get the Labor Department reorganized. Now reorganization is forced pell-mell, by the onset of a storm the Labor Department was going to prevent. And the storm will not reach maximum intensity for 30 or 40 days to come.
JUST LIKE OLD TIMES This is not a favorable picture to reveal when the administration is trying to get authorization to gaze into crystal balls and tell the Congress and the world what to do next year. The reorganization of labor agencies failed to prevent the old-time blowing off by such agencies as the Davis stabilization office. For a time this made us all feel that we were in the old prewar Roosevelt days, with people saying things one day and the President slapping them down next day.
CONGRESS GOES OWN WAY Meanwhile, Congress is going its own way. The $25 benefit is doomed. The War Department is losing in its draft proposals. The determination to keep many men in service to ease unemployment is losing ground before G.I. resentment, letters from home to Congress and the skepticism of a great general like MacArthur. With the dykes breaking as they are now, it would not be surprising to see Congress accelerate the abolition of war controls all along the line. In such a situation, calm reason doesn't prevail. Political expediency and emotion have their way.
A GREAT FEAR A great fear prevails in political minds of what G.I.'s are thinking about the prevalence of strikes while they are waiting for discharge. Resentment is accumulating which will be felt in elections for a long time to come. The C.I.O.'s political action organization will be threatened by a heavy veteran vote. And the administration which permitted strikes to grow, which offered fabulous promises, including Mr. Davis' fantastic predictions, and which failed to establish a liberal demobilization policy will get no mercy from returned servicemen. Mr. Truman is facing his first great test. The honeymoon is over.