Raymond Moley
THE HOUSING SCRAMBLE
The seriousness of the housing shortage lies in the fact that our lack of anticipation has created a situation in which much will have to be done expensively and badly, because there is no time to plan.
National planning is out of the question at the moment when cities, towns, companies and individuals must make quick, jerry-built decisions, with little consideration of how what is done now will fit into the pattern of things to come.
LOT OF NEW SLUMS?
There is a cost dilemma. Thoughtful and experienced people are pointing out that if we are to meet our hopes of full employment and a high national income, especially in the big cities, houses will have to be of higher quality than the top limit of priorities suggested in President Truman's message.
The danger is that, under the stress of necessity, we are on the way to building a lot of new slums. These will, in a few years, stir the emotions of people like Mrs. Roosevelt, and the blame will fall not on the government which failed to plan or on the necessities of houseless people, but on builders, landlords and capitalists generally.
WILL COST DEARLY
Too many houses built too small will ultimately cost their buyers dearly. There isn't a great deal that can be done about this, considering the present desperate shortage. But it is worth pointing out that there may, in the future, be a rental or sellers' market among the people who will not experience all the prosperity which prophets like Henry Wallace have been talking about.
The promised land will have many mansions, but shrewd people will try to build houses which can, in a period of good times, be added onto. Smart people are looking for plans which will get by the emergency, but which will also permit the addition, later, of extra rooms without spoiling the architecture.
IDEA IS GOOD
This idea is good, and architects are suggesting that such designs will trend toward the New England Colonial, which can ramble, or the international modern, which, since it is not stabilized, can be anything. After all, something went out of life when the Victorian house went out of style. In the past century people started with houses which could be extended in almost any direction. But as people got suburban-minded, they proceeded on the assumption that when they outgrew their houses they would sell them and buy or build others.
Now, however, we are starting with a budget of $6000 to $10,000, but with high expectation of enlarged families. Unless that is made the basis of planning, many people will be caught later, unable to sell.
A SUGGESTION
A real estate editor suggests that unless expansion is provided for in plans, neighborhoods will be blighted at birth. Out in the perimeters of big cities are neighborhoods where people roofed over basements or made garages into temporary houses. But when the money came to build permanently, people decided to move elsewhere, because they and their neighbors had spoiled the neighborhood.
The recent housing conference in Washington ended in a mild brawl. The contractors' representatives resented the way the government people "pushed them around." The union labor people were silent. There were no unanimous recommendations. There is little unity in this field. But building must go on, and the intelligence which must guide it must come from wisdom gathered by many individual builders who meet present needs, but look carefully into the future.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.