A Compromise Merger.—BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Some months ago, when Army-
Navy unification plans began to
get hot, it was suggested in this
column that the place to unify
the services was in the White
House.
The President's time, of course,
is extremely limited, allowing
only for supreme decisions. But
it is possible to attach to the
President a deputy with sufficient
authority and dignity to
correlate those matters in which
joint Army-Navy interests are
involved. The President already
has six administrative assistants.
But so insignificant have been
the appointees that the present
grade of assistant President is
insufficient. A deputy could be
added who would be qualified to
serve for the President in service affairs.
The President is committed to
the Army plan. He cannot well
retreat. The Navy is prevented
by a White House gag from a
real appeal to the public. Congress is in no mood to act hastily. Therefore, unless a statesman-like solution comes forth,
the controversy will run on, like
a festering sore, through a year
when major military decisions
must be made.
A serious objection to the
present scrambled Thomas plan
is its provision for a single
chief of staff. Under him would
be the commanding generals of
Army and Air and the Chief of
Naval Operations. This feature
is a special source of irritation
to Navy leaders. Such a chief
of staff would have to be a
technical man. Hence, an Army,
Navy or Air man.
The duties of the proposed
chief of staff are not clear. He
would not command the three
services. He would advise the
President and the defense Secretary and get from them the
orders which he would execute.
But the language of the proposal is so loose that he could,
substantially, be put in command. Congress is thus asked
to give the President power to
legislate this chief into a position
of power not specifically authorized in the bill.
In the current bill, a departure
is made from the former Army
plan in that the subordinate, civilian heads of the three services
would be called Secretaries,
not assistant Secretaries. This
is a distinction without a difference. A Secretary without Cabinet rank is just another assistant Secretary, whatever you call
him. The "Secretary" for the
Navy would be six times removed from the top. Above him
would be the Secretary and Undersecretary of common defense, and it is quite evident
that, for all practical purposes,
the assistant Secretaries for research and development, intelligence and procurement would be
superior to him. The whole plan
would create a vast jumble of
Secretaries, with no clear line
of authority anywhere. It is a
chartmaker's nightmare.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.