Allied experience in the German war certainly should impress upon the gentlemen meeting at Potsdam the critical need of a clear definition of the peace terms to be imposed on Japan. And, while agreement among the Big Three is desirable and probably essential, President Truman is the man to tell the Japs what is in store. For it is mostly our war, and American lives are at stake. Plenty of lives were wasted on all sides because we failed to make things clear to Germany a long time before surrender. We failed not only because we provided no means of weakening German resistance, but because we permitted a large number of Allied private and semi-official expressions of opinion to be used by Goebbels for his purposes. MERELY APPEASEMENT now. That is the danger with Japan Generals, admirals and others with curbstone comments, such as the one about the Emperor's white horse, do not help. And certainly it is dangerous for those who hate Russia to suggest terms, such as leaving Manchuria in the custody of Japan, which are merely measures of appeasement. They are endangering our relations with our biggest ally. Many of those who make such suggestions fail to comprehend the curious relationship of the Emperor to his people and to the political and military regime which started Japan on the road to conquest. Before the opening up of Japan to the modern world, the Emperor was of no great importance in the lives of the people. He was virtually a prisoner of the feudal lords, in the past century he has emerged as a god and leader of his people. Political and military leaders have "sold" him to the people with a conviction so deep that it cannot now be broken in them. But the tactics of those very leaders, in their past feuds with each other, provide the essential clue needed by our propaganda from the outside. LINE OF PROPAGANDA Whenever one group wanted to undermine another, it would accuse its rivals of deceiving and misleading the Emperor. Assassinations and "putsches" were excused on the ground that they were undertaken to save the Emperor from bad advisers or traitorous enemies. The unity of the Emperor and his people was always taken for granted. The warmakers who most effectively claimed to be friends of the Emperor succeeded. The line of propaganda from our side should be to get over to the Japanese that we really intend to destroy those who have inspired the attacks upon the Allies and who are also the people who have brought trouble to the Emperor and tragedy to the people of Japan. POLICY FAVORED It should indicate that we have no intention of interfering with the religious and social system which centers in the Emperor, except to make sure that there shall be no more conquest and no more aggression. Those who have most carefully studied the mind, as well as the modern history of Japan, say that this policy would be most likely to weaken the resistance of the Japanese people and army. The terms of the Cairo declaration could be maintained under this policy and unconditional surrender is always the unconditional surrender of armed forces. No one surrenders the people of a nation or the nation as a whole. When armed resistance is gone, the country is at the mercy of the conqueror. The problem, then, is to get the country on a going basis as soon as possible, shorn of any power to return to aggression.