Formula for Nonpartisanship_BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The hush which greeted President Truman's special message has ended in the buzz of political surmise. We Americans are hardened democrats, and we insist upon our politics, rain or shine, war or peace. Perhaps the best way to intensify political speculation is to ask, as did the President, that politics be forgotten.
He said: "The American people have the right to assume that political considerations will not affect our working together. The world situation is too critical, and the responsibilities of this country are too vast to permit any party struggle to weaken our influence for maintaining the peace."
We have no right to assume that Mr. Truman was not entirely sincere in this appeal.
However, it would have been more'generous and more likely to accomplish his purposes if the President had said something like this:
"Four years ago, largely at the initiative of Republican Candidate Dewey and of Secretary of State Hull, there was initiated a bipartisan approach to foreign affairs. That covenant still stands. I commend the Senate for its action on ERP and I have no reason to expect unnecessary delay in House action on the same subject.
"I also note that Republican leaders favor a greatly increased Air Force and larger aid to China. I am prepared to meet these additions to my program with an open mind and to agree on a consolidated program.
"Moreover, to make certain that no political capital be derived by either party from this great national effort, I repudiate in advance any claim in the forthcoming campaign that my election is essential to the success of our foreign policy. We shall seek no votes by smearing Republicans with the term 'isolationist.' I am sure that whoever is elected in November will deserve the support of all Americans."
A campaign fought in the spirit of such a declaration would be something to live in history. But it is hardly possible to expect such nonpartisanship. In 1940 and 1944, Henry Wallace and others stumped the country telling voters, in substance, that a vote for the Republican candidate was a vote for Hitler. And no reproof came from the President for this demagoguery.
Already, ingenious figures are appearing to show Republican opposition to international measures in Congress. The figures, it is said, show the "isolationism" of the Republican party. This is no way to invite cooperation. Mr. Truman would be more of a statesman if he began his campaign by repudiating not only Henry Wallace but also the overzealous partisans in his own party.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.