Europeans now resident here
marvel at the strange nature of
American inflation. In Germany
and elsewhere in Europe, past
inflations have always been accompanied by reduced purchasing power and a lowered standard of living. Here, we have inflation while we are able to eat better than ever before. The Queen of France was several generations ahead of her time when she said, "Let them eat cake."
The Department of Agriculture has given us a publication which offers some highlights on high living. The average American is eating 17% more than he did between 1935 and 1939. And he is eating less of the plain food his parents made him eat in his childhood. He eats 5% less bread and potatoes. But he makes up this deficiency richly. He eats twice as much ice cream. He drinks 16% more milk and cream. He eats 20% more cheese.
Per capita, we eat 32% more chicken than before the war, 27% more eggs, 25% more pork and 29% more beef and veal. Lamb and mutton, never very large items, have fallen off 10%.
All this looks like more dreaded calories. The new look must be covering up considerably more square miles of female loveliness. But some comfort for those who dread poundage can be found in the drop in potato consumption and from the fact that we eat 24% more fruit and 15% more assorted vegetables.
Here is another angle. We eat only two-thirds of the butter consumed before the war, but twice as much oleomargarine. To be more specific, we consumed, before the war, 7.3 times as much butter as oleo, and now the figure is 2.3 times as much.
The farmers of America will see this picture with mixed feelings. Those who produce fruit will take comfort. So will truck farmers and meat producers. The dairy farmers will not be so happy. They may well hope that cheaper feed will help them in their contest with the old rival, oleomargarine.
The trend away from bread and potatoes is not a temporary phenomenon. This has been a trend in two generations. Perhaps its root cause is the supplanting of hard manual work by mechanization and brain exercise. All nations in which manual labor has declined have witnessed a tendency to change over from carbohydrate foods to foods with higher protein content.
The present great foreign demand has caused a great expansion in wheat production. But that demand is not likely to continue. It will be reduced by more production abroad. When foreign demands on wheat are lowered, we may look for trouble in our big wheat producing areas, unless the increase in our population keeps up with the production.
Meanwhile, if prices decline without a great reduction in employment and production, we may well see a continuation of our stature as the best fed nation on earth.