Govs. Dewey and Warren
and the Price of Bread
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It might be suggested to Candidates Dewey and Warren that they might, as Governors of their respective States, induce the producers of bread, to lower prices. Such a move would garner more votes than all their speeches.
In August, Secretary of Agriculture Brannan suggested that the bakers might reduce the bread price. The bakers presented figures intended to show that a reduction was not possible. Later President Truman brought up the subject to show that the 80th Congress could have given him power to reduce the price of bread. He took occasion to castigate "the big corporation bakers" and to imply that the Republican Party wanted to protect the bakers.
The issue comes down to a question whether, despite a big decline in wheat prices, other items involved in producing bread have risen so much that the average price must stay at 141⁄2 cents.
Elaborate figures compiled by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics of the Department of Agriculture show that the costs of all ingredients including flour went down from January to June in this year by 1.07 cents per pound of white bread, while the bakers' and retailers' margin went up by 1.1 cents. The millers' margin, according to these figures, went down .88 to .66 cent. Since June, the price of flour and shortenings has gone down. In all probability, the same calculation would show that by now the cost of all ingredients has gone down altogether by about 1.2 cents per pound, which would mean a rise in bakers' and retailers' margins of about 1.3 cents.
The bakers reply that their costs have gone up since January, particularly in wages. The Department of Commerce's survey of current business shows that wages in the baking industry have gone up 6.85%. Let us assume that wages in distribution have gone up by the same percentage. Figuring a total wage ratio of 30% in the retail price of bread, this increase in wages would increase the cost per pound by .3 cent. This seems to show that the increase in wages per pound, taken from the decrease in costs of materials per pound, leaves about a 1-cent margin.
The question is whether that very important cent should be given to consumers in a reduction in prices. This should be considered particularly by those producers whose costs are lower than the over-all average.
In fairness, it should be added that the bakers also claim that labor productivity has been going down. To substantiate this, they say that when 1945 is compared with 1947 there is a considerable reduction in the output per man-hour. This rate of reduction, however, would mean very little in the period from January to October, 1948.
It would be a very effective move politically for Dewey and Warren as State Governors to find a means of meeting with the bakers and others to see whether a reduction might be possible.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.