The scene is the shadowy corner of a bistro in Florence. The time is now.
The young American Consular officer had been enchanted by the black, piercing eyes and impassive features of the Italian at the next table long before that person moved over and opened a conversation.
"You are an American, I assume. And may I, without offense, ask your occupation?"
"Ah, the Foreign Service! That opens many memories in my mind, for in a small clerkship in the government of this city I began my career so many, many years ago. My fellow clerks were accustomed to what I called high thinking and low living in places like this.
"I hope you will not be startled if I introduce myself at once, for I have something to say to you of critical importance for your country and mine.
"I am the spirit of Niccolo Machiavelli. In expiation for certain passionate misdemeanors in youth, I was condemned after my death to wander over the world and to observe the feeble progress of men who never seemed to master the science of living together. This cruel posthumous punishment was not inflicted because of my books, although my writings have been condemned by high authorities.
"I am concerned with what is happening in Europe and with what is to happen in the Italian election next month. I am, as you know if you have read my 'Discourses on Livy,' a believer in democracy. In the long run people gain more from republican government than from the rule of any prince. This Communist dictatorship can end only as tyrannies have ended before, but perhaps at a terrible price to the world.
"But the issue is to win a sweeping victory over Communism in this election. In my writings I made clear the futility of fortresses as bastions. Your country, however powerful, cannot maintain European peace by military force. Ultimately, peace will be preserved by collective satisfactions of the people of Europe.
"Winning this election goes back to the best means of winning the support of many people. That, in turn, involves understanding the nature of people. I have pointed out that human beings are moved, among other things, by lively expectation of personal benefits or by the receipt of material rewards.
"Italian republicanism, however, is poor and can ill afford the gratuities necessary to arouse the people in an election. Russia has riches of sorts, but it cannot quickly distribute desirable cash. America is rich. Its dollars ring out everywhere. Among its people are many who know expertly how to distribute gratuities to great advantage. I have seen much of America in my spirit life and I have greatly admired some of those organized groups called machines.
"You should select with care a number of effective but not well-known Italian-speaking political workers, provide them with American money—a million bills of small denominations—and have them work quietly in all parts of Italy. The material favors they should bestow should be called, as they are in America, 'getting out the vote.' This is not bribery. It is a way of rewarding people for performing what you call a civic duty. Be sure you so designate this operation, because Americans would not openly espouse bribery, except in war.
"Larger rewards for energetic action might be provided for leaders of non-Communist parties such as the Socialists.
"The promise of a return of Trieste is good because the Italian people, largely because of my inspiring words about patriotism, are devoted to their national interests. But patriotism alone is not enough. What you might call 'personalized gifts' are also essential.
"And when you tell this to your superiors in Washington, do not mention me. That would ruin it all. Give them the meat of what I have said. They—especially those who have lived with a successful machine—will understand."