LONG OPPONENTS TAKE
HEART IN LOUISIANA
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Down in Louisiana people opposed to Long-ism have taken heart again. They were deeply discouraged last winter when former Gov. Sam Jones was badly beaten for the Governorship by Earl Long, the late Huey's brother.
On Aug. 31 Louisiana is having a Democratic primary. The late Huey's son Russell is running for the Senate seat vacated by the late John Overton. His opponent is Judge Robert Kennon who until the Jones-Long primary was not well known in State politics. Judge Kennon made such a remarkable showing in the race for Governor that many people thought he might have beaten Long if there had been no Jones on the ticket. He proved to be an attractive figure, and is now making a hard fight against the Long machine.
Contrary to a general impression elsewhere in the country, Louisiana politics are not sharply divided between New Orleans and the rest of the State. The lines of machine influence run all over the geographical areas of the State. Cities other than New Orleans are growing up-notably Shreveport. In New Orleans there are two or three groups in sharp conflict.
In this decisive primary it is quite certain that Kennon will run ahead of Long in New Orleans. The Judge comes from Northern Louisiana and will have some strength in that part of the State. The Long power is mainly concentrated in the rural parishes with the Sheriffs and the patronage-rich legislators. Old-age pension checks will bring out votes for Long. But the reform vote that supported Jones is not active. Its resentment against Kennon for his opposition in the winter primary is strong. The situation thus created is like that so often created by reformers. They want to pitch or they won't play ball.
A bright feature is the revival of the popularity of New Orleans' young reformer, Mayor Delesseps (Chip) Morrison. He was swept into power two years ago in a crusade against gambling. Then he showed that he really meant what he said. The result was a temporary loss of popularity. Now the vociferous gambling element is becoming reconciled to the Mayor. It realizes that Morrison is an "all right guy" who means what he says and is not interested in any "take." Morrison is also showing up well in contrast with Earl Long, who has the name but not the charm and brains of Huey. Also, Morrison's public improvement program is beginning to show results. If Kennon can defeat Russell Long it will give a lift not only to Morrison but to the substantial civic interests who are working hard to make New Orleans a greater seaport and business center. If Long wins, however, the State machine will continue to harass Morrison and New Orleans' business interests.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.