The Pendergast Memory- BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Two bits of news vividly recall Harry S. Truman's long association with the Pendergast machine and the brighter days enjoyed by Kansas City since that machine was broken.
The first is the publication of a notable book, "Missouri Waltz," by Maurice H. Milligan, who as U.S. District Attorney put Tom Pendergast behind the bars. The second is the result of the city election in Kansas City, in which the machine took another beating.
Milligan lays it on the line by saying that, while in 1944 he issued a clean bill of health for Truman, the events since have caused him to feel that the public is entitled to all the facts. He says: "In a word, my observations of boss rule in Missouri renewing and flourishing during these years under countenance from a President of the United States and his executive assistants have dictated the writing of this book. Because of what has been permitted to happen in Missouri between 1944 and 1947, neither I nor any citizen has the right to extend the benefit of a doubt."
"Biographers may strive to minimize the importance of the political alliance between Tom Pendergast and Harry S. Truman, but history is history; the will to forget a fact cannot totally obscure it. Memory is short, but not short enough to dissolve the thick walls of Leavenworth Prison, or to chase the Kansas City 'ghost votes' back into the cemeteries from which they arose. Pendergast might have made the pages of history without an assist from his most illustrious disciple, but no serious student of our political scene can refute the assertion that Harry S. Truman's career, without the help of Boss Pendergast, would have ended far short of the White House."
Before Milligan's appointment, he was called to Washington by Attorney General Cummings and was told that the administration regarded Kansas City as a "hot spot" and that a new District Attorney would be expected to prosecute crime vigorously.
When Milligan's term expired, Roosevelt reappointed him. Sen. Truman was disposed to invoke Senatorial courtesy to block the appointment, but the man then in the White House was ready to fight. Thereupon, Truman contented himself with a speech charging persecution.
This speech, it should be noted, was in the very midst of the vote-frauds prosecutions, which grew out of the 1936 election. Those prosecutions were successful and the sordid character of the machine was revealed.
Later, Pendergast himself was caught and convicted as the aftermath of a piece of immense bribery.
After the death of Tom Pendergast, largely because of the vigilance of the Kansas City Star more vote manipulation was discovered. When, a year ago, the doors of the county court building were blown open and ballot boxes were stolen, there was "no comment" from the President.
Brighter days prevail in Kansas City now. In the city election on March 30 a nonpartisan slate won for the fifth time. Jim Pendergast still heads the machine once ruled by his Uncle Tom. The President's picture, according to last reports, still hangs in the boss' sanctum.
But the old power is not there, thanks to the Kansas City Star and Maurice Milligan.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.