MUST WE HAVE DEFICITS?
By Raymond Moley
The fiscal estimates of Sen.
Harry F. Byrd, presented in a
forceful speech three weeks ago,
have had an important effect on
thoughtful people throughout
the country. His rather grim
warnings of future deficits come
at a good time.
Republicans in Congress and
Democrats in the administration
are vying with each other for
the credit of a balanced budget.
Neither party is eager to disturb
the serenity of the picture.
But the taxpayer is entitled to
know the truth, even in an election year.
Byrd says that in the fiscal
year beginning next month we
shall not have a surplus, but a
deficit of $3,800,000,000. He bases
this assumption on the belief
that our total expenditures in
the next fiscal year will be $43,
800,000,000—of which $7,225,000,000
will be foreign commitments
and $13,200,000,000 for defense.
Some competent economists,
however, question Byrd’s deficit
estimate, not because of any
fault in his estimates of expenditures, but because, for one thing,
receipts from taxation may be
higher than he anticipates. Federal
income runs with national
income, and national income, up
to a point we have not yet
reached, runs with rising prices.
Considering the probable slow
increase in prices in most lines
for some months to come, it is
fair to estimate that national income
over the next fiscal year
will be $220,000,000,000 as against
slightly over $200,000,000,000 for
the year now ending.
Federal revenue in the present year, after tax reduction,
will come to about $42,700,000,000. But with additional national
income, we may expect
next year to have $44,500,000,000,
which would balance the budget
estimates of Sen. Byrd.
There are other considerations
which may brighten the picture.
Since the greatest stumbling
block ahead of budget balancing
is the armament program, anything
that helps our relations
with Russia will help our
finances. The great war scare,
so notable in the Pentagon
Building some months ago, is
perceptibly declining. Therefore, there is a hope—though
only a hope—that Byrd’s forecasts may be considerably
brightened a year hence.
Another point bears on our
estimated allotments for Europe
relief. Reports are pouring in
that European crops are much
better than our government anticipated when asking for appropriations. It is fair to ask whether
the original estimates are untouchable, if better conditions
should prevail in Europe. Here,
there may be a real prospect of
a reduction.
All speculation, however, depends on the fortune of politics.
If, as is to be hoped, a man is
nominated and elected who has
the energy and administrative
ability to tackle the budget at
the very outset of his administration, there certainly will be
no need for a deficit. But his
best work must be done immediately after his inauguration.
We learned in Harding’s first
year that only a new broom can
sweep clean. Budget Director
Charles G. Dawes did the sweeping then. Now we need not only
a new, vigorous President, but
a 1949 edition of Dawes.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.