Why Cartels Are Necessary
in Europe and Japan
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
As Candidate Dewey and his
prospective Secretary of State
have pointed out, the practical
administration of foreign affairs
is as important as the general
policies under which our diplomacy operates.
There is a vivid illustration
in what is happening in Japan
and Germany. Our policy is to
restore the economies of those
countries to a self-sustaining
basis. But the occupation
authorities are operating on a
theory of breaking up industries
into units which can never efficiently serve the needs of
Europe and Asia. This is because the higher-ups in both
places are military men with
scant business experience and
the lower-downs are zealous
proponents of the New Deal
theory that all bigness is bad.
Most Americans hate "trusts,"
and because they think "cartels" are "trusts" they hate
them, too. There is need, however, to revise our concept of
cartels in the light of their special place in the economies of
Germany and of Europe.
It is characteristic of the economic confusion of the New
Deal that the noted British
economist, John Maynard
Keynes, who inspired President
Roosevelt with lend-lease theories, was one of the great exponents of cartelization in England. Twenty years ago, Keynes
visited Germany to study the
structure of the German coal
cartels. Shortly afterward, he
publicly recommended the cartelization of the British cotton
industry. His argument was
that the cartel principle was
the only means of keeping Britain in the running against the
competition of the highly concentrated continental economy
and the superior mechanical efficiency of America.
What the European cartel
does is to maintain minimum
prices and set marketing quotas.
Under other names, we are doing exactly the same thing with
two-thirds of our agricultural
production and with all our
bituminous coal.
In practically all European
countries agreements between
big industries have been inevitable, and if Europe is to recover, they must be inevitable
in the future. The main reason
for this is that marketing areas
are very small geographically
compared with those of America. In coal and steel, for example, German production was
a good fraction of ours before
the war, but in America the
spread of the companies and
their customers was 20 times as
large.
Without industrial agreements in Europe, cutthroat
competition would have resulted which could have ended by
the domination of one corporation over a whole industry. Under agreements, not only competition but diversified control
was maintained. The fact is
that in prewar Europe the
countries which developed cartelization agreements grew
strong industrially, while in
France, where individualism
was strong, industries remained
weak and, in the test of war, inadequate.
We shall best serve the revival of peaceful industry in
Europe and in Asia if we try
to understand and promote the
forms and concepts of industrial
organization which are suited to
those areas.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.