The report of Albert Einstein
and a group of distinguished
Americans on the dangers of
military influence points up
what many thoughtful people
have been saying for some time.
Hardly anyone who visits
Washington these days fails to
be struck by the rapid transformation of our civil establishment
into a military center. This
trend has proceeded with increasing momentum since the
end of the war. It probably has
not reached its peak, and it certainly carries with it the possibilities of real danger.
During the war professional
Army and Navy men were intensely occupied in their own
services. Thousands of civilians with special training
moved into responsible military positions. The civil identity of the latter became merged
in the military. They acquired
military titles, which most of
them greatly cherish even after
their return to civil life. Their
liking for military habits of administration and conduct in
many cases became permanent.
Authority becomes a pleasant
atmosphere in which to live.
It is not strange that many of
these quasi-military people, as
well as numerous career officers,
have sought active berths in the
civil departments of government.
The infiltration of the civil
establishment by the military
has been greatly accelerated by
the obvious love of the President
for the military. This trait is
probably rooted in Mr. Truman's
military career in World War I
and also in a busy President's
desire for an easier method of
running an administration.
Adm. Leahy is deeply entrenched in the White House,
and Gen. Marshall takes over
foreign affairs. Generals become
Ambassadors and Ministers in
important foreign posts. Every-
where the influence of the joint
chiefs of staff is felt. Two great
temporary dependencies, Germany and Japan, are ruled by
generals. Minor positions in the
great departments and establishments are filled by former comrades in arms.
Many former New Dealers
who, under their cloak of liberalism, really believe in an authoritarian state, slip almost unnoticed into strategic advisory
posts.
Under the influence of the
Army, Latin-American countries receive quantities of arms
made in the U.S.A. This latter
fact greatly strengthens reactionary governments down there
and makes the progress of democracy much more difficult.
Foreign policy is no longer a
civilian function, as it was even
under Seward in the Civil War.
Foreign policy is heavily influenced by the military and, to a
very important degree, it enjoys
the privilege of military censorship.
It is too early to suggest the
parallel of the Roman empire
ruled by the Praetorian guard.
But it is not too early to take
note of a tendency which has
never before so heavily influenced American public policy.
Under such a regime, the military greatly influences education,
scientific research, public works
and many other fields of civil
life. It enters business through
government regulations, and it
lays a heavy hand on the agencies through which ideas and
opinions are disseminated.
We might not agree with the
Einstein group on military
training, but we can take serious
note of its warning concerning
the military invasion of civil
government.