How to Check Inflation _ _ BY RAYMOND MOLEY
An experienced trader in commodities, who hesitates to speak in his own name publicly, points out that it lies entirely within the power of the administration not only to squeeze and reduce speculation, but to attack inflation on a wide and vital front. He says that if government grain buying could be as secretly managed as the stabilization fund in the Treasury, there would have been no such rise in commodities as has been seen since September and that in the next three or four months prices could be materially reduced. No Congressional action at all would be needed for such managed buying. Just skill and secrecy in planning are necessary. The commodities trader points out that the government already owns 400,000,000 of the 500,000,000 bushels of wheat needed up to May or June. Why not halt buying for a while and enter the market only intermittently for the next few months? Over the period between now and June, only 20,000,000 bushels a month are needed. This amount could be secured without question and at great savings. A sudden stoppage of government buying, even though it be temporary, has a powerful effect on speculators. This was shown in late November, when a sudden rumor ran through the exchanges that the government would stop buying for the rest of the year. Prices dropped suddenly. The government's actions over past months have created exactly what the President deplored in his statement on the Republican anti-inflation bill: namely, "speculation, hoarding, dumping and other actions." Throughout 1947, the administration lost little opportunity to proclaim the No More Yoicks? Kansas City Star We trust the 90,000 Britons who are asking Parliament to outlaw fox hunting realize what they're doing. They would still the sound of the hunting horn and abolish the sight of scarlet coated horsemen riding to hounds. They would wipe out once and for all an institution dear to Englishmen since the seventeenth century. This they would do deliberately and without a tear for the passing of one of Britain's most storied traditions. Their will may prevail. Many things nearly as revolutionary have happened to the British since they decided to have their fling at socialism. Should fox hunting go on the already long list of taboos then all-out assaults on those other English standbys, the sport of cricket and 4 o'clock teatime, may be expected. For some of the British just don't seem to enjoy being British any more. danger of shortages and to point out that the supply would fall short of the need. The Department of Agriculture said that we could safely spare 570,000,000 bushels. Government propaganda did much to draw speculators into the long side of the market. The Department of Agriculture will deny that its buying policies could have been altered in the last few months to prevent the rise. It says it had to buy and that the magnitude of its buying was so great that prices inevitably had to rise. The department will, however, find it hard to deny that the farm bloc would have entered vehement protests against real stabilization. It would also find it hard to deny that a valiant effort now to hammer the price of wheat down would be politically injurious to Truman's chances of winning more support in farming States. It must be admitted by Republicans, also, that they have shown no zest to hit the cost of living in the vulnerable spot, which is the price of wheat. Meanwhile, the tomtoms are sounded about speculation. And the Republican Congress gave the administration its desired power to hit the distillers again. That curb, which extends to Jan. 31, will no doubt be up for an extension early in this session of Congress. It saves little grain and is of doubtful constitutionality. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.