Truman's Off-the-Cuff Style
Is Something New, at Least
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Aside from all partisan considerations, the new Truman—born in the heat of a July night in Philadelphia and come to adolescence in Detroit on Labor Day—is going to be an interesting political phenomenon. Students of political methods will ponder his technique long after his administration is forgotten. It may not win, but it will enliven the campaign.
The President or his friends apparently decided that, although he had to stand in Roosevelt's big shoes, there was no use in providing him with Roosevelt's speeches. The same writers might pen the speeches, but Truman, not Roosevelt, would come out of the radio. Even a modification of Roosevelt's speeches, with all the ironical invective cut out, wouldn't do.
The serious, conscientious vein of the Truman speeches of the last three years could hardly carry through a campaign. People were won by that earnest, emphatic tone for a while, but its entertainment value was short-lived. What alternatives remained? No doubt Messrs. Truman, McGrath, Clifford and Rosenman did a lot of pondering at that point.
'WHY NOT BE YOURSELF?'
Then a great light suffused White House walls. "Why not be yourself, Harry? Nothing could possibly hurt after the last two grueling years. You have nothing to lose but the Sacred Cow. Go in there swinging with everything you've got. That guy Dewey can't hurt us!"
This prize-ring parallel is not irrelevant. When a fighter has no Dempsey punch and no Tunney defense, he is told to go in swinging in all directions, in the hope that some vital spot may be struck. Moreover, that kind of scrap is good to see. The customers like it. It is exciting.
The newspapers tell us that the method used in briefing the President for his onslaughts is to give him no written speech but an outline, with an occasional statistic not too difficult to explain. Then he can fill in with whatever occurs to him.
THE HOMEY TOUCH
The filling in seems to consist of homey colloquial expressions common to campaigning for lesser offices in the land—for Sheriff or County Supervisor. It is natural that these remarks are interspersed with class appeals and prejudices that go back to the days of the Populists.
The Detroit speech ran the range of the more ordinary invectives. The President, by his delivery and intonations, sought emphasis by a terrierlike shaking of his sentences. It was to a degree reminiscent of the impassioned utterances of Gov. Landon when he was running for President 12 years ago.
THE RISK
The President's tactics may seem to be justified by the political emergency in which he finds himself. The polls and portents are all running against him. His method will not seriously and permanently injure the prestige of the office he holds. That office has stood shocks before.
It is doubtful, however, if these tactics will help to any degree. It is a well-established fact that speeches change few votes in the face of a broad current of opinion. But speeches can lose many votes, especially, when an unfortunate break in language or thought creeps in.
The risk which the President is running is very great. He is sure to provide good targets for the opposition. There is, moreover, great danger in the field of foreign relations. The method of the courthouse steps is hardly a safe way to deal with matters of vast concern to country and the world.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.