Happiness Views
of Gov. Green in
Best Tradition
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
PHILADELPHIA, June 21 —
Gov. Dwight Green's definition
of the objectives of government
—character, influence, happiness
—in his keynote speech was, as
he said, based on the philosophy
of "a great American spiritual
leader." That leader was Henry
Churchill King, a professor of
philosophy and president of
Oberlin College for many years.
He was truly a great leader, as
a whole generation of Oberlin
students came to know. The
book in which his basic ethical
principles were best portrayed
was "Rational Living," a volume
widely known in educational circles
40 years ago.
Sermons Recalled
In his lifetime, King, a Congregational minister, lectured
throughout the country. He was
a man of intense moral fervor.
This writer, then a student at
Oberlin, can well remember
King's notable baccalaureate sermons in the period of the first
World War. He argued with a
singular earnestness for a better
peace and for world influence on
the part of the United States.
It is of interest to note that
Gov. Green's alma mater, the
University of Illinois, gave King
an honorary degree and that the
present chancellor of the University of Chicago, R. M. Hutchins,
was a student at Oberlin. The
elder Hutchins was a colleague
of King on the faculty at Oberlin.
In Classic Tradition
Green's adaptation of King's
principles in terms of the nation,
the government and the party
was conceived on the basis of the
insistent demands of contemporary life as well as sound political science. The selection of
public "happiness" as a basic objective of government is in the
best classic tradition.
Jefferson pointed it up in the
Declaration of Independence as
"the pursuit of happiness." Nearly
100 years before, John Locke,
in justifying the English revolution of 1688, had stated the citizen's
rights as life, liberty and
property. Jefferson, following
Aristotle, substituted "happiness" for "property."
The foreign affairs section of
Green's speech is an expression
of foreign policy designed to
unite the midwestern and eastern wings of the party. It is
absurd to say, as some internationalists are saying, that there
is a real rift in the party on
foreign affairs.
Meets Dewey's Approval
The fact is that Green's statement meets the full approval
of Dewey and of John Foster
Dulles, who is a major figure in
the bipartisan activities of the
last four years. The gap, if there
has been a gap, has been bridged
and Green's statement is the
middle ground.
Green, because of his speech
and the Illinois delegation because of its size and mobility
may be a tremendous factor in
the balloting. It would not be
strange to see a Dewey-Green
ticket emerge. There is both logic and practical politics in the
combination. Taft is well liked
in Illinois, but the leaders in
Chicago believe the county ticket
would be more adequately
helped by Dewey—and especially
by a Dewey-Green combination.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.