GOP. Must Start Again
at the County Levels
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
This is written after a trip to
Missouri, Oklahoma, Kansas
and Illinois. Talk of politics is
light these days. Most people,
even politicians, are more concerned about the future economic situation and whether Truman is likely to win Congress to his new program of wider socialization.
But here and there people who voted for Dewey are recovering their perspective and are talking about the future of the Republican Party. More interest in this subject will revive in a few days, when the Republican National Committee will meet in Omaha to scan the horizon and make plans.
The future status of National Chairman Hugh Scott Jr. is uncertain. He bears the heavy disability of a big victory that slipped off the hook. He has no wide national support, and most of the members of the National Committee feel no happiness about further Dewey leadership. Scott may feel, after the Omaha meeting, that retirement is the best thing for himself and for the party.
But the National Committee must do more than change chairmen. It must decide what can be done to bring coherence to a thoroughly demoralized party. Sacrificial goats are no useful substitute for a new national policy. The Committee must get some money and plans laboriously to build upon what is left after the November hurricane.
WHY THEY LOST
But a new Republican Party cannot grow into being through the efforts of any National Committee. Nor can it rest its case on a more or less aimless revolt by the "moderns" in the Senate against Sen. Taft. The Senator from Ohio has provided more constructive phases of party policy than any one of his critics. Merely to protest against him is too negative to win popular support.
The Republican Party lost the election largely because of a very simple fact. It forgot that its renaissance after 1938 was based not on a national policy but on local successes. Politics in this country is the sum of many local situations. Republican governors, mayors and other elected officials worked hard to give the people intelligent, efficient government. They won victory after victory until Congress was recaptured.
THE BETTER CANDIDATES
But in 1948 they lost their hold in States running all the way from Connecticut to Colorado. Democrats simply had better local candidates in too many States. Dewey fell because his support in those States had lost the confidence of local voters.
It may be a long, weary job to bring the Republican Party back. But it must, if it is to recover, start over again back at the county line. It must offer in every State an alternative to the unlimited spending which seems to be a national Democratic obsession.
A significant feature of virtually every new Governor's message this year was the urge to give more and do more at the expense of government. That trend threatens national disaster. Republicans must intelligently contest that trend or they, too, will be swept along