RAYMOND MOLEY:
Communist Teachers'
'Academic Freedom'
Once more, the issue of academic freedom has been raised.
The University of Washington has fired three Communist professors and has placed three ex-Communists on probation.
This action raises the question of how free these professors really were while they enjoyed a privileged and protected spot in academic life.
It would seem that, if they were not free, it was the professors themselves and not the university that forged the chains.
The entire proceeding was carried out with deliberation, care and fitting dignity.
A legislative committee last summer conducted an investigation which for thoroughness and fairness was in marked contrast with the activities of the Thomas Committee in the city of Washington.
CAREFUL INVESTIGATION
Following its report, a faculty committee deliberated seven weeks.
And now the board of regents has followed the university president's recommendations.
It is hard to see how the Association of University Professors can disagree with a conclusion based on such evidence and such sound reasoning.
President Raymond B. Allen has offered some common sense on the subject which merits wide attention in academic circles.
"Academic freedom," he said, "consists of something more than merely an absence of restraints placed upon the teacher by the institution that employs him.
It demands as well an absence of restraints placed upon him by his political affiliations, by dogmas that may stand in the way of free search for truth, or by rigid adherence to a party line that sacrifices dignity, honor, and integrity to accomplishment of political ends."
TEACHER'S STATUS
A teacher in an American university enjoys a privileged status.
In any good institution he has, after he has proved himself in his profession, what amounts to permanent tenure.
His pay is not large, but he has high rank in community life.
He has enough leisure to gain much prestige and, in many cases, considerable extra compensation from writing and lecturing.
He is usually protected by a pension.
ENTANGLING ALLIANCES
In the main he is responsible for his professional product only to the students he teaches and to the good will and respect of his colleagues.
This imposes on him a moral obligation to be fair and objective in his teaching, to improve his mind by research and observation, to protect the good name of his institution and to refrain from connections with outside organizations that demand adherence to a set of ideas and doctrines which invalidate his objectivity as a scholar.
This writer has enjoyed academic tenure of that sort for 30 years, and while his interpretation of this obligation is his own, he feels that it is sound and necessary.
It means that he has refused membership in committees, organizations and movements which have even the slightest connection with the subject matter of his teaching and writing.
SEMISECRET CONSPIRACY
The moment a man joins a group which can make decisions and announce policies to which he as a member gives his name, he has surrendered his right of independent thought.
I admit that this is an extreme position, but it has saved unlimited embarrassment.
Affiliation in the major political parties is an exception, because merely to register as a Republican or Democrat does not bind a person to vote or to sponsor the party's candidates or policies.
The Communist Party permits no such freedoms.
In fact, it is not a real party.
It is a semisecret conspiracy to destroy the whole basis of freedom.
No professor can claim the privilege of a freedom which he himself has cast away.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.