F.D.R. Feared
Hoover Above
All the Rest
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A few friends of Herbert Hoover, as well as many of his critics, will disagree with a view that this observer has formed after a good deal of consideration of Hoover's neglect by this generation. But since I had a good opportunity to know the strategy of Democratic leaders in the early days of the Roosevelt era, it may be worth while to set down that view while Hoover is receiving well-deserved plaudits on his 75th birthday.
*
Roosevelt always had a much more serious opinion of the danger to him of a Hoover comeback than he would publicly admit. I have the evidence that Roosevelt made a bet with me before the 1936 campaign that Hoover would be renominated by his party. His reason for that belief was that no other Republican was morally and intellectually equipped to provide strong opposition to the New Deal. Roosevelt had an unexampled opportunity to know, because he had known of Hoover and his works at first hand in the Wilson days.
Hence Roosevelt and the Democratic propaganda brigade concentrated on the indoctrination of the new generation in Hoover's career as President and carefully avoided mention of Hoover's early and brilliant years. This job was so well done that a new generation of voters grew up with few notions about Hoover except the unfair and untrue impression that he was the architect of the depression.
★
The real gist of the Democratic appeal in four Presidential campaigns has been the wonderful recovery of the country after the defeat of Hoover. The Democratic party has been running against Hoover for 20 years. Under such circumstances, it is easy to see why Roosevelt never availed himself of Hoover's invaluable capacity to serve the nation, even in war years when many of the problems reappeared which Hoover had solved so well in the earlier war. It was not mere jealousy or vindictiveness that restrained Roosevelt. It was a prudential measure to avoid building up a rival.
The Democrats succeeded so well in this campaign of tarnishing the Hoover record that the infection spread to Republican leaders and candidates. Willkie and Dewey by studied effort sought to shroud the Hoover achievements and to create the impression that the Republican party they were leading had its origins some time after 1933. This was futile, of course. The Democrats were thus free to attack the Republican past, which was left starkly undefended.
*
Meanwhile, in convention after convention, Hoover gave to his party the moving expression of a real party philosophy. Compare if you will those Hoover speeches with the vague expressions of Willkie and Dewey. Finally, after defeat after defeat, Hoover is still the outstanding opponent of the Roosevelt-Truman welfare state.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.