Three Viewpoints on
Stalin-Acheson Exchange

Three of The Times' commentators today discuss the implications of Stalin's latest peace overtures and Secretary of State Acheson's reply. Their opinions, not at all identical, are presented in symposium form.

WALTER LIPPMANN:

The hard core of the matter in the declarations by Premier Stalin and Secretary Acheson is whether there shall be a conference before there is an agreement on Germany or an agreement before there is a conference. Stalin would like to bring about a conference now—if possible with President Truman and certainly of the Foreign Ministers. Mr. Acheson, if I interpret him correctly, knows that no conference can succeed until through diplomatic channels an agreement has been reached among the three western powers and with the Soviet government. What Mr. Acheson rejected was the proposal to enter a public conference blindly. What he proposed instead was that the "normal channels" of diplomatic negotiation be used first to prepare the understandings without which a public conference can end only in still more violent disagreement. "All of the normal channels," he said, "are open," and this is as definite an invitation as any government, whose intentions are serious and sincere, could ask.

GERMAN PROBLEM

The main problem which has to be solved is indicated by Mr. Acheson's comment on Stalin's answer to the third question in the press interview. They are agreed that the blockade, the counterblockade, the Berlin currency, the Western German government are provisional measures on the way to "a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers to consider the German problem as a whole." But there is no agreement as to what would happen when the Big Four met to consider Germany as a whole. In the American view there is no use meeting until we know what can be done at that meeting. Therefore, the crucial problem is to find through diplomatic channels something substantial and useful which a Council of Foreign Ministers could agree upon.

NO TREATY NOW

Now at the present time or in the near future it is, I think, impossible for them to agree on a peace treaty for Germany. For that presents an insoluble question: What shall be the government for Germany as a whole? The Council of Foreign Ministers is bound to disagree about that. It is difficult enough for the three western powers to agree about the German government. They can never accept the Soviet idea of a German government, nor will the Soviets accept the western idea. This means that the Council of Foreign Ministers is incapable of providing the German nation with a government that suits the four powers and also the Germans. Does it not follow that they ought to stop trying to do what they know they can never do?

The formation of a German government cannot be achieved by the occupying powers. It almost certainly cannot be achieved while Germany is occupied. In all likelihood, if the experience of other nations is a guide, it cannot be achieved by the Germans except after a prolonged period of struggle and contention among themselves.

AN INTERIM REGIME

To recognize these truths, which no one can, I believe, seriously deny, may lead to some useful, practical clues as to what should be attempted next. If there is to be another Council of Foreign Ministers, its purpose should not be to write the final peace treaty. Its purpose should be to write a statute which will fix the relations of the victors to the Germans during the period of time when the Germans take over the responsibility of governing themselves and of creating a German government. We cannot, in other words, jump from the Potsdam system, which has broken down, straight over to a peace treaty. We must establish a new system to replace Potsdam. It would be an interim system, one in which the Allies continued to maintain garrisons in Germany and their ultimate controls, in which, however, they would liquidate military government and cease to occupy the whole territory of Germany.

Copyright, 1949, New York Tribune, Inc.

EDGAR A. MOWRER:

Secretary of State Acheson's terse insistence that the United States will not discuss other countries' affairs except in the presence of representatives of those countries is the most heartening thing to come out of the State Department in years. It means that the United States will no longer throw innocent peoples to the Communist wolves. The new doctrine was born of the bitter disillusion that came from "trusting Stalin." President Truman may like or dislike "old Joe," but quite obviously the American administration no longer trusts him. The new policy, based on the same attitude we eventually adopted toward that other great Imperialist, Adolf Hitler, was carefully worked out by two men who know the Soviet Union: State Department Counselor Charles E. Bohlen and "Chief Planner" George F. Kennan. This doctrine was recently outlined by Mr. Bohlen in an address before the New York Bar Association. What it comes down to is this—the American people must realize that until the Soviet Union modifies its basic goals, no fundamental solution of outstanding problems between Moscow and Washington can be expected.

ISLAM COMPARED

A fellow columnist [Walter Lippmann, in the Times, Feb. 4—Ed.] has challenged the logic of such a position. The basic goals of Islam, he notes, were just as aggressive and expansive as those of Stalin. Yet without their being formally renounced, Islam and the western world were able to compose outstanding differences. Obviously so long as Islam, whether in the person of Arabs or Turks, was strong enough to impose the Koranic law upon other nations, it never ceased doing so. Differences were composed only when the Islamic countries became too weak for adventures. The fellow columnist erroneously insisted that while the Soviet Union has violated some of its agreements, it has kept others. He failed to point out that the Soviet Union violated all agreements, concerning peoples and areas under the iron heel of the Red army or its Communist auxiliaries. It kept only those agreements where failure to do so might have resulted in real trouble.

A CLEAR POLICY

Mr. Bohlen's outlined policy is therefore entirely clear—while we cannot hope to reach any "fundamental solution" with the Soviets, we may hope to settle "practical problems" in all areas where we are in a position to punish the Soviet Union in case of violation. This sound mistrust of a proven liar should not prevent President Truman from meeting and talking to Generalissimo Stalin. It should not prevent negotiations from proceeding between American and Soviet representatives. In my judgment, the Americans should be willing to talk to the Russians any time. They should never be in a hurry. They should proceed as slowly and as exasperatingly as any Russian. Where other countries are concerned, they should immediately insist that the representatives of those countries be brought into the discussions. But they should talk. They should be willing to talk until the Caspian freezes over.

Copyright, 1949, Press Alliance, Inc.

RAYMOND MOLEY:

Whatever may be the motive behind the present Russian peace offensive, it deserves a more skillful reply than has yet been made. The blunt and unimaginative tactics of Marshal have been succeeded by the clever and ironical language of Acheson. But the issues raised by Stalin have not been resolved. Acheson took high ground in saying that other nations should participate in any negotiations. This was intended to maintain American good will among our friends among the Western European nations. They surely could take no offense if Truman and Stalin should make a real effort to lift the shadow of fear that hangs over Western Europe. For they know that in a giant conflict they will be caught between two immense forces and relatively will be the greater sufferers.

IMPROVISED COURSE

President Truman made the point that settlements should be made within the framework of the United Nations. This, too, is high ground, and it could be explored with profit. For the facilities of the United Nations are open and easily accessible to all bilateral disputes. The President, however, leaves unanswered the question of how we can bring these negotiations within the United Nations and makes no move to take them there. Moreover, our course seems to be improvised from day to day. First, we raise the irrelevant question of where the meeting should take place, and Stalin replies with the absurd suggestion that it should be within the Iron Curtain. The place could be easily fixed. Potsdam may be unsafe for Stalin because of bitter German hatred of the Soviet. But there is neutral Stockholm or historic Vienna, where Eastern and Western Europe have always found common ground. The fact seems to be that the Marshall Plan and our vast rearmament are winning the cold war. Stalin sees the danger and hopelessness of further aggressive action. Vishinsky is where he should have been all along—in a sanitarium. The Soviet wants to move toward some sort of peace.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.