U.S. Judge Medina Sits
on Hottest of Benches
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Harold Medina, judge in the
Federal District Court of the
Southern District of New York,
may well emerge from the current
Communist trial as a celebrated
national figure or he may finally
wish he had never left the practice
of law for a career on the bench.
For this trial promises to be a
show—and a long one—filled with
Communist dialectic, propaganda,
disorder and hilarious comedy. A
judge who can weather such a
storm deserves high honors.
Twelve high-ranking Communists
were indicted in the New York
Federal District months ago for
conspiracy to teach and advocate
the overthrow of the government
of the United States by force and
violence. At the moment, 11 of
these defendants and their 10
lawyers are clearly attempting to
overthrow the American system of
justice by disorder, quibbling and
delay.
PUBLIC RELATIONS
Every conceivable effort is being
made to reach the public. A gang
of some hundreds of Communists
are picketing the Courthouse with
placards and noisy demonstrations.
These people hoot and abuse the
judge when he enters. One of the
defendants uses his floor privileges
as a member of the City Council
to carry on harangues about the
trial. The judge and the District
Attorney are subjected to every
possible annoyance in court. One
lawyer accused them of maintaining
an "armed camp" because of the
presence of police. Another speaks
of the place of the judge's residence
as a "silk-stocking district." When
the judge speaks softly, he is
charged with "sarcasm." When he
is firm, he is "tyrannical." Despite
a delay of six months, the lawyers
shout about being "rushed to trial."
The whole jury system is at the
moment under attack. It is "undemocratic."
It excludes Negroes, Jews and all
poor people. An attempt was first
made to disqualify the judge because,
it was claimed, he was responsible
for the system of drawing prospective
jurors. When he overruled this, the
defense tried to examine him as a
witness. This he refused because it
certainly would have disqualified him.
Finally, the defense has started
questioning all prospective jurors
about their education, the value of
the houses they occupy, their political
beliefs and the like. The claim is
that the jury panel is a "rich man's
club" and that any trace of education
in a juror is "undemocratic."
BAWLING BARRISTER
One lawyer staged a spell of weeping
in court. The next day the judge
admonished him for this. "I don't
make any apology," he replied. "You
certainly wept and wept in the sight
of the law," suggested the judge. The
lawyer then made a speech about how
his emotion was aroused by "years of
discrimination against my race." Judge
Medina is a colorful, able lawyer who
served on the Columbia Law School
faculty under the deanship of the late
Chief Justice Stone. He has had long
experience as a trial lawyer. But on
this case he must now spend months
holding his temper, guarding his utterances
and weighing every decision. For the
unseen witnesses always in his mind
must be the justices of the United
States Supreme Court, some of whom,
like Justice Murphy, have been none
too strict in their interpretation of
Communism. That is the tribunal where
this long show will certainly have its
final stand.
Meanwhile, the Communists are
making the most of the defenses
provided over the centuries by the
system they want to destroy.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.