Labor's Ardor
Cools Toward
81st Congress
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
There is bitterness and lamentation in the labor press these days. The D. M. Digest, which summarizes labor press opinion, reports that labor is wondering which side really won the election last November and why on earth it felt so happy when Truman was elected.
Now, after six months, the Taft-Hartley Act is still law; there is no minimum-wage legislation, no civil rights program, no shift of taxes from workers to the big corporations, and no Socialized state.
Instead, says the labor press, there is a new and terrible party running the show in Congress which the CIO press has named the "Dixiegops."
This party, according to labor, represents "wind baggery" in Congress—a "talkathon" by "chattery Claghorns" and a filibuster which is "a danger to every union member in the country."
HOPE ABANDONED
The fact is that labor, beneath all this turmoil, is virtually admitting that there is no salvation in the 81st Congress and is looking forward to the election of another, more labor-minded Congress in 1950.
Something of the same pessimism is evident in the tactics of the President's lieutenants in Congress. The leaders—Rayburn, Barkley, McCormack, and Lucas—planned and welcomed the 10-day Easter holiday. They feel that 10 days of home cooking and home contacts with constituents may condition members to the necessity of coming to the aid of the party and its triumphantly elected President.
Prolabor Senators like Morse and Humphreys are complaining that administration leaders have lost the fight for the Truman program because their strategy has been clumsy and mistaken. They complain, too, that since the leaders failed to press their initial advantage when the bloom was on the newly elected administration, precious and indispensable time has been lost and only failure and frustration lie ahead.
MORSE'S FORECAST
Sen. Morse in a published letter to a labor friend in Oregon is especially critical of Democratic leaders. He says that, despite lip service, a majority of Democrats are not in favor of the Thomas-Lesinski substitute for Taft-Hartley; that while the bill can be reported out by Democratic votes, many of the Democrats will then vote to amend the bill on the floor, and a bill satisfactory to labor can never be written in the midst of Senate debate.
Morse feels certain that there are not enough votes to repeal the Taft-Hartley provision requiring the anti-Communist affidavit. For all this trouble Morse holds Democrats responsible because of their refusal to permit amendments in committee.
Meanwhile, the Dixie-Republican coalition is planning to push the Wood bill as a substitute, and it would not be strange if that bill, rather than the Thomas-Lesinski bill, were to be sent to Truman. The President in that case would probably sharply veto the Wood bill—which would leave everything just as it was last year.