Politicians Want Equality,
but Not in Their Districts
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The utter hypocrisy of administration Democrats in their efforts to force through the Truman civil rights program is shown by what they do when segregation measures arise in their States and districts. They are passionately in favor of equality somewhere else. And so, it may be added, are the Republicans who are helping to intensify this Democratic factional fight.
On Feb. 24 the Senate Banking Committee by a vote of 10-2 defeated an amendment to prevent segregation and discrimination in Federal housing projects. On March 2 the House by a vote of 106-64 defeated a measure to ban segregation in the District of Columbia. On March 4 the House Banking Committee by a vote of 16-9 rejected an amendment to the rent control bill which would bar discrimination in veterans' rental priorities.
It should be noted also that the administration labor -bill omitted that provision in the Taft-Hartley Act which makes it an unfair labor practice for labor unions to discriminate against workers. And the arbitrary manner by which the bill was sent to the floor prevented any such amendment from being offered or discussed.
This whole civil rights mumbo-jumbo involves an effort by northern Democrats to retain minority votes which helped to elect Truman and Democratic Congressmen at the expense of the Southern States. Whenever they face the stark reality of a genuinely enforced equality in housing or employment, they either avoid the issue entirely or covertly permit such questions to be settled without recourse to law.
The experience of a year or two of Northern States with so-called "fair employment laws shows that provisions for enforcement are largely window dressing. In New York, Gov. Dewey's commission has contented itself with moral pressure, conciliation and persuasion. This is, of course, the only way the government should act in employment practices. But to satisfy powerful minorities, teeth were inserted in these laws—teeth that were never designed to bite.
A good deal of plain talk is in order regarding the dangers involved in enforced equality in public housing. While little is being said in the open, it is a fact that the subject is now providing a terrific headache for New York City housing authorities.
Reckless campaign promises are coming home. Political promissory notes are being called. And intolerable situations are being created because politicians will not squarely face facts.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.