Commodity Exchanges Still
Serve a Useful Purpose
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

During a quiet moment on
the floor of the New Orleans
Stock Exchange, a member
remarked to this reporter: "I
guess they are waiting for
something to happen to Secretary Brannan." This remark,
however facetious, reflects the
apprehension of cotton traders
since the announcement of the
grandiose plan of the Department of Agriculture. Cotton
traders expect that the next
move of government will be an
attempt to get further regulation to effectuate President
Truman's desire to crack down
on trading in the commodity
exchanges.

SELF-REGULATION

The recent Truman-Brannan
agricultural plan, clearly designed for its political effect,
suggests that further political
favors among small farmers
will be sought through the restriction of trading in futures.
Since the days of William
Jennings Bryan politicians
have constantly exploited the
notion among farmers that
in some way they are the
victims of speculators; and
among consumers that high
prices are caused by trading in
futures. Fifty years of argument have not dissolved this
notion, despite the economic
reasons for such trading.

Meanwhile, the exchanges
have developed a strong measure of self-regulation. They
regulate the size of margins
and, to a degree, the amount of
holdings. And their means of
disciplining members have
never been more effective.

It becomes clear to anyone
who will study the operation of
commodity exchanges that a
broad and active market in
futures actually assures the
farmer stability in prices and
consumers a reasonably low
price for the goods made from
raw commodities like cotton.

PROTECTS CONSUMERS

The easiest way to explain
this is to point out that the
need of producers to sell seldom
coincides in point of time with
the need of consumers to buy.
If there were no trading in futures, a sudden burst of selling
at a moment when demand was
slack would drastically depress
prices. Also, at a moment
when manufacturers and others
might decide to buy, prices
would rise rapidly. Trading
in futures, in which the speculator takes the risks, bridges
the gap.

The manufacturers, moreover, must plan months ahead
for production and selling.
They must, within limits, fix
future prices of fabricated
goods and make contracts to
sell them. Only in a fairly
stable market can this operation protect the interests of
everyone along the line, from
farmer to consumer.

A high margin requirement,
which is the usual method proposed to eliminate speculation,
would drive out the small traders. The market would thin
out to the point where large
sales or purchases would produce violent fluctuation in
prices. Speculation may lower
or raise prices, but only momentarily. Its general effect is
stability.

It is the government, operating through loans, restrictions
and the accumulation of vast
surpluses, that really controls
prices.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.