Democratic Gain in Midwest
Must Be Countered by GOP
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
President Truman in a recent
address. hailed his party as a
truly national institution. However, the proof of this was not
convincing. He pointed to the
fact that he won in 1948 without New York, Connecticut and
New Jersey and without the
Solid South. This is hardly
proof of his contention. It does
show, however, that in carrying certain agricultural States
which had been, with fair consistency, Republican since 1936,
he had broadened support of
his party from the narrow base
upon which Roosevelt depended.
But what Truman won by his
appeals to farmers, he lost because of his civil rights program.
The situation to which Truman
pointed with pride is
something that Republicans
must seriously consider as they
look to 1952. The Truman administration, by large promises
and consistent cultivation of
the farm States of the Middle
West, has done something that
Roosevelt failed to do in the
six years after 1938, when Republican strongholds returned
to their traditional allegiance.
*
In a trip through the Middle
West two weeks ago, this reporter heard on every side that
Republican strength has not
increased there since the election last year. In short, things
look no better for the Republicans in Colorado, Nebraska,
Iowa, Illinois and Indiana. If
anything, Democratic sentiment
has gained ground. The philosophy of the Brannan farm
plan, however unsound it may
be, has measurably influenced
individual farmers, despite the
opposition of large agricultural
organizations.
Democratic Governors in Illinois and Indiana seem to be
making a good impression on
their States. In Nebraska, a
great Republican stronghold for
years, wise observers say that
the vote for Congressmen in
1950 may show a further turn
away from Republicanism.
Anyone who will study the
election statistics over 50 years
will realize that a successful
Republican Party must hold an
area roughly extending from
Columbus, O., to Denver in
order to balance the big Democratic advantage of the Solid
South. The Far West and Northwest may be fighting ground, but
the base of Republicanism must
be in the Middle West. Advocacy
of the great proposed Missouri
Valley Project by the administration will help the Democratic
Party still more.
So long as the Solid South
continues to be the bulwark of
conservatism in Congress, however, there can be no truly
national Democratic Party.
Those Roosevelt-Truman Democrats outside the Solid South,
who have adopted the welfare
state as their objective, cannot
become a national party so
long as there is active Republican opposition and so long
as the South continues to elect
its present representatives in
the House and Senate.
We may go on for a long
while with a conservative
majority in Congress and a
welfare state administration in
deadlock. Meanwhile, Presidential elections may go by narrow
margins to one side or the
other. This is not a desirable
form of two-party government,
but it can be endured.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.