How Oregon Has Avoided
Bankruptcy From Pensions
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It was widely noted throughout the country last fall that the ordinarily conservative State of Oregon had voted for a pension scheme which would take an annual toll from the State treasury equal to about 40% of the State’s revenue. This was regarded as another indication of the capacity of the people, through direct voting on legislation, to seize enough money to bankrupt not only their governments, but the economic system on which governments must depend. There is enough evidence through the States generally to justify fear, but in the case of Oregon certain steps have since taken place to avoid a crisis, at least for the time being.
★
A large part of the credit for the common sense which has alleviated the situation is due to Douglas McKay, Republican Governor of the State. McKay is a businessman who was elected in face of the Truman trend of 1948. He is serving his first term. It will be recalled that last year the Governor of Oregon and most of those designated to succeed the Governor in case of death were killed in an airplane crash. The man who did succeed to the office was defeated in the primary by McKay, who not only was elected but carried the State for Dewey.
The pension law which was carried last year is known in Oregon as the Joe Dunn Act. It was, fortunately, a loosely drawn contraption. It provided that a pensioner, in order to establish need, should be receiving an income of less than $50 a month. The law would then guarantee needy people $50 from the government. It would have been an almost unbearable burden on the State’s resources to provide such old-age assistance to something like 23,000 eligible people. The State would have been required to cut to the bone its contributions to education, roads and other essential services.
However, about a week after the election the Attorney General of the State declared the Joe Dunn Act to be unworkable and gave the opinion that the Legislature could amend it. The Legislature, under the leadership of Gov. McKay, took this vindication of the rights of representative government very seriously and two acts were passed in the present year’s session. One of these states that $50 is to be regarded as a goal and that the State will do what it can do meet that goal. It provides very generously for old age assistance, but falls far short of the grants which are provided in the neighboring State of Washington.
The burden of welfare activities is still very heavy; the cost of old-age benefits alone is between 15 and 20% of the total expenditures of the State government. But this amount is far less than last year’s initiative would have taken. The old-age people will, of course, get the new bill on the ballot for a popular vote.
One of the most interesting provisions of the enactments of the Legislature is the so-called lien provision. This provides that when a beneficiary and his wife have passed away the State will have a right to collect for payments made from the property left by the beneficiaries. This is important not only in principle, but from a revenue standpoint, since 23% of those receiving old-age assistance in Oregon own property. The Joe Dunn people have made that provision in their referendums. But they have passed provisions which would make it necessary to show that the children of the old folks are unable to help. This is extremely important; for in any old-age legislation it should be provided that if children are able to support their parents, they should be compelled to do so.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.