Hoover Report Proposes,
We the People Will Dispose
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
When the final account is
made of the long and useful
life of Herbert Hoover, two
periods will shine out more
than all the rest.
The first will be the two years
after World War I, when his
name was a household word
and his popularity outshone
that of any figure of the time.
The second will be now, 30
years later, as he completes the
great report of his commission
on the organization of the executive branch of the government.
The Hoover Commission's report will be completed and made public on March 13. From then on, it is up to Congress, the President and public opinion to make use of its invaluable suggestions for improvement in government and relief from the burden of public expenditures.
The great impact of the findings of the Hoover Commission will slowly make itself felt.
For it has the facts and unanswerable logic behind it.
SUMMARIES UNEXCITING
There have been appearing in the daily press for the past few weeks summaries of the findings and recommendations of the Commission on various specific subjects. There are 20-odd reports of this kind. They make important but not very exciting reading, because a summary of recommendations is never sufficiently spicy to make good headlines. Moreover, there has been an altogether unwarranted amount of attention given to minor recommendations such as that of increasing the President's salary.
The real meat of the Commission's work is in the 23 basic and background reports of the "task forces."
In the case of some of the task forces, the investigation and recommendations were done by nationally known, accounting or auditing firms.
SOME STRONG MEAT
These task force reports, some of which run into thousands of pages, provide, for anyone interested in how his taxes are spent, rich and sometimes red meat. It should be the job of responsible journalists to dig into these reports and write for public consumption some of these vitally important findings. Such material is interesting, true and immensely significant.
Many people are going to be hurt by these reports—notably bureaucrats, Congressmen and special interests who profit by government waste. We are already hearing walls of complaint. But omelets of economy cannot be made without breaking eggs of incompetence.
It is futile to expect Congress to correct evil, laxness and obsolescence without plenty of prodding from the public. For Congress is part of the trouble.
Civic bodies, clubs and taxpayers' associations should take up this fight. These efforts to reform government will surely run squarely into mountains of dry rot, outworn tradition and red tape.
Herbert Hoover and his colleagues have pointed the way and deserve the support of all of us.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.