Benighted labor organizations in the United States which support Truman Socialism with votes and money may find that they are digging the grave of free unionism. Before they go further with their alliance with the Federal political machine, they might well take account of what is happening in Britain. A storm is gathering over union demands and the Labor government's resistance to those demands which may possibly overturn the government while Conservatives merely act as bystanders and, ultimately, as receivers. A good many unions are making demands for various sorts of relief and concessions. In the face of this demand, which if successful would throw the whole British economy into an inflationary spiral, the government is leaning heavily upon a threat to use the famous "conditions of employment and national arbitration order," which was a wartime measure of protection against the stoppage of vital defense activities. Clearly, the government is desperately anxious not to make a test of this order. Against the threat to use this order, the shipbuilders and engineers have issued strike or arbitration ballots. This is in open defiance of the government, which claims the right to prevent not only a strike but a strike ballot. This ballot will not be taken and counted for two months, and that provides some borrowed time for the government. If the government should meanwhile yield to this demand, an increase throughout the economy would be inevitable. If the government resists, it may well destroy itself. This crisis brings to mind a long discussion which I had with Minister of Health Aneurin Bevan in Bristol in February. I pressed him for more than an hour to tell me what sanctions his government holds against strikers, especially in nationalized industries. His answers ranged to the dire suggestion that the government could put strikers into the army and leaders into prison. My conclusion was that as against the powers of the Attlee government, which was created by labor and financed in its campaigns by the unions, the Taft-Hartley Act would look like a measure drawn up in the offices of the CIO. Socialism and free labor are wholly irreconcilable. That is what American labor should realize.