U.S. Demands Performance
Instead of More Promises
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
ECA Administrator Hoffman France, an agreement was made
has told the countries of West- by the United States with 10
ern Europe that, unless they nations of Europe and Latin
bring about a single European America for mutual reductions.
market by elimination of trade The result is that the Danes
barriers among themselves in have cut duties on only 1% of
1950, Congress may well decide U.S. imports. Uruguay, Nicara-
to terminate ECA funds. This gua, the Dominican Republic
American reminder that the and Haiti have cut duties on
Marshall Plan was a plan and only a slightly larger percent-
not a gift was couched in fair- age. Sweden made a cut of 8%,
ly plain terms. It has already but warned of increases later.
brought forth a few specific Thus, slow performance follows
actions. Regrettably, it has also big promises.
brought forth a great many new The persistence of trade dis-
expressions of mere good in- crimination in Europe is fur-
tention. ther shown by the fact that 30
Cripps has answered that years of effort to bring about a
England is not solely a part of customs union of the Scandi-
Western Europe, but also a navian countries has not suc-
leader of the British Common- ceeded. Belgium and Holland
wealth and of the sterling area. agreed to eliminate customs
French Foreign Minister Schu- barriers, but quota regulations
man has repeated his country's were then imposed which
loyalty to the plan and he restricted trade as much as
agrees with the principles ex- ever. The British still fear the
pressed by Hoffman. potential efficiency of Germany.
The United States is right And the French fear not only
about this demand. The Eco- German efficiency but possible
nomic Co-operation Act passed military power.
by Congress in 1948 was very Commenting on the Hoffman
clear about what was expected warning, the London Econ-
in return for American dollars. omist says this week that Hoff-
The law says that European man's expectations are hardly
countries will provide "a strong justified and that in the absence
production effort, the expansion of some political union of Eu-
of foreign trade, the creation rope it can hardly be possible
and maintenance of internal to impose more free trade upon
financial stability.. including individual business and labor
all possible steps to establish unions. In short, that Hoffman
equitable rates of exchange, and is demanding a revolution in a
the progressive elimination of few months.
trade barriers." It remains to be seen whether
The essence of all this is not American public opinion can be
vague agreements, but action reconciled to these stubborn
within some specific time. European realities. Certainly,
Some notion of the snail's as they become clearer next
pace at which trade barriers year, the chorus of those who
are actually reduced is provided believe our money is wasted
by the result of a recent effort will grow apace.
for joint reduction. At Annecy. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.