TYDINGS
GRAY PAPER
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The Tydings subcommittee,
by its intemperate use of language, its obvious bias and
partisanship and its general
failure to do what it was created to do, earned the general
criticism with which its report
was greeted in the Senate.
First, Sen. McCarthy denounced the State Department;
then Sens. Tydings,
Green and McMahon denounce
McCarthy; and then other Senators denounce Tydings, Green
and McMahon. But this game
of denunciation must stop
somewhere.
The public is entitled to
know how it has been served
in its own State Department,
in whose hands there may
rest the awful choice of peace
or war. And the Tydings subcommittee has not served that
public need.
The first responsibility for
this fiasco goes squarely back
to Sen. Connally’s Foreign Relations Committee, of which
the Tydings group were members. That very important
committee is not at present
competent to assume any important task.
★
In the first place, Sen. Connally, despite his distinguished
career, reveals himself in Senate
debates as irascible, partisan, and not altogether able to
grasp firmly the great international issues now before the
country.
Ranking next on the majority side is Sen. George, a great
Senator who has his hands full
elsewhere—as chairman of the
Finance Committee. Next is
Elbert Thomas, who has all
he can do trying to be re-elected in Utah. Then comes Tydings, also confronting stiff opposition for re-election. Next
is Pepper, a lame duck. Then
come Green and McMahon,
who attained no distinction in
sponsoring the Tydings report.
Finally on the Democratic
side is the able Sen. Fulbright,
who is also busy elsewhere,
investigating the RFC.
On the Republican side, Sen.
Vandenberg is ill and inactive.
Sen. Wiley seems to be busy
in many places other than in
foreign affairs. Finally, there
are Sens. Smith of New Jersey, Hickenlooper and Henry
Cabot Lodge Jr., who as minority members can hardly be expected to make up for the deficiencies represented in the
general membership of the
committee.
★
Under the rules and traditions of the Senate, little can
be done to remedy this situation, but since this is a very
critical moment in foreign relations and since the Senate is
master of its own affairs, an
extraordinary step should be
taken. Senators of both parties
who have the time and capacity should be added to the
Foreign Affairs Committee,
and out of the new group a
subcommittee might well take
over the job so badly mismanaged by Tydings, Green and
McMahon.
It is absurd to speak either
of a bipartisan foreign policy
or of any Senatorial policy at
all, as long as the Foreign Relations Committee is so inadequate.
With the State Department, recently overruled by the
President and so far unable to
clear itself of serious charges
on other scores, and with a
weak Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, our diplomatic
soundness may well be questioned here and abroad.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.