Tragedy of British Liberals
Who Refuse to Join Tories
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
LONDON—The British Liberal Party, despite its distinguished past, endures a precarious present and faces a bleak future.
In the late House of Commons that party had only 10 seats, although in 1945 it polled 2,225,000 votes. In the election this month, the Liberals will get more votes, but not many more because they will contest more places. Polls indicate that not more than 10% of the voters intend to vote Liberal.
Despite the gloomy outlook, the Liberal Party intends to put up more than 400 candidates. The leader of the party, Clement Davies, says the number will be close to 500. This is an ambitious undertaking for so small a party. Under the law, candidates must post deposits amounting to $420, and if in the election a candidate gets less than 8% of the total vote, his deposit must be forfeited.
*
In the last election a great many deposits were forfeited. Because of that, the party has been called the Party of Lost Deposits. This time, the party adopted the extraordinary measure of insuring its deposits with Lloyd’s. Churchill made great fun of this in his most recent speech.
In that speech, moreover, Churchill made a bitter attack on the party to which he once belonged. He charged that all that the Liberals are seeking is to hold the balance of power and dominate the scene with a handful of members. He revealed further that two or three years ago the Conservatives attempted to make a deal with the Liberals which would have enabled the two parties to save the nation from Socialism.
This suggested deal apparently consisted of an arrangement to concentrate the power of the two parties in a number of constituencies, with provision for 50 or 60 seats to go Liberal. This proposal, Churchill says, was spurned. Hence, in the present campaign, Conservatives have put candidates into virtually every contest.
The Liberal Party is hopelessly divided.
It is unfortunate that the two right-wing parties cannot get together, because the very people who need protection by a strong party are in the middle classes for which Liberalism was really created more than a century ago. These classes, given real leadership in one party once more, could probably regain control in Britain and could once more try to win well-being without Socialism,
Copyright, 1950, by Associated Newspapers, Inc.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.