Small Business Offered
a Bureau's Death Kiss
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Despite the fact that the figures of the Department of
Commerce show that small
businesses have done as well
as big ones over the last 20
years, there is still intense
political solicitude for them.
The RFC, which by every consideration of logic and the
facts should be placed in deep
freeze until a big decline demands its use, is again thrust
forth by the administration
as the appropriate place for
small business to turn.
In addition to the usual arguments against direct government
help to any business except in times of crisis, a new
one enters the picture now.
This argument is based upon
a condition which is now growing in the very sector of business for which most small
loans would be solicited. That
sector includes various kinds
of wholesaling, retailing and
services.
★
In this field great structural
changes are taking place
which, before long, will greatly increase efficiency and
sharpen competition. The supermarket and other self-
service selling ideas have already reduced the opportunity
for newcomers. Now we have
a movement for greater mechanization. The increasing number of vending machines is
obvious to every observer. Filene's store in Boston has announced greater use of these
devices. A Harvard professor
proposes "department stores
in the form of the supermarket."
It would seem that this is a
poor time to encourage newcomers to try old-fashioned
methods. Unless exceedingly
well managed and up-to-date,
new enterprises may well be
overwhelmed.
Government is notoriously deficient in business judgment,
as many of its loans already
demonstrate. An effort by the
present RFC bureaucracy not
only to lend money but to
teach its recipients how to run
their businesses would result
in disaster for all concerned.
★
Political bids for small business votes are not only poor
business but very bad politics,
because for every small business that burgeons forth with
government money, a sizable
number of competitors will be
antagonized. Moreover, to
tempt newcomers to enter
perilous seas with government
loans is likely to result in the
government's losing both its
money and its beneficiary. For
few who fall blame themselves. Self-esteem demands
an outside target for their
wrath.
The government is already
increasing the number of small
businesses through GI loans
in which local banks carry
part of the risk.
The natural creditor for a
small business during its first
years is the wholesaler or an
important supplier. They are
in position to appraise the real
risk and to offer advice. Later,
if the venture succeeds, any
banker will readily open an
account. This is a healthy way
for business to be born and
develop.
★
The government will be approached by the poor risks and
will ultimately take the losses.
This means more and more
inflation and a growing resentment against this whole paternalistic movement. Ultimately,
if this form of helping the
helpless is pursued, a reaction
will come in which even useful government enterprises
will be fatally injured.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.