National Poll Shows Farmers
Opposed to Brannan Plan
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
DALLAS—The major political question in farm areas this
year will be whether the
farmers of the nation favor
the Brannan plan, which President Truman has so ardently
sponsored. Many and varied
opinions have been offered.
The major farm organizations
are opposed. Congressional
opinion holds that the bill is
a “dead duck” in this session.
But in a city like Dallas,
where the issue is vital, a succession of bureaucrats, including Secretary Brannan himself,
appear with oratorical appeals
for its adoption.
Since the major purpose of
the Brannan plan is to attract
votes, the administration is not
particularly anxious to have it
adopted soon. In actual operation the faults in the plan
would become evident. Its
great cost, which is one of the
Secretary’s best-kept secrets,
would appear. And as vote-
catching material it would lose
its power.
Meanwhile, an interesting
bit of opinion has been made
known here in Dallas. The
Grocery Manufacturers of
America, Inc., presented four
questions to 2500 young farmers across the nation. Those
who were polled were on the
average 33 years old, and their
holdings averaged 450 acres.
*
The first question dealt with
the Brannan plan. Eighty-five
per cent of the answers indicated that this scheme is considered the most dangerous of
all the items in the welfare
state program. Other dangerous items opposed by a great
majority of those polled were
Federal supervision of health
and education, the expansion
of Federal agencies, and subsidies generally.
Since a major factor in the
Brannan plan is to penalize
and possibly break up large
farms, the poll showed opposition to such discrimination.
Ninety per cent of the answers
stated that the government
should donate its price-supported surplus foods at home.
Among the five problems
about which these farmers are
most worried, the fear of government encroachment was the
most serious. A majority of
the farmers stated that this is
a good time “to hold steady.”
Only 11% would like to expand, and another 11% would
like to reduce their holdings
or sell out.
*
In his insistence upon the
Brannan plan, the President is
engaged in a reckless gamble
with the entire future of agriculture, and these young
farmers are showing the same
apprehension that has already
been evidenced by their elders.
For if in a few other products the same debacle takes
place that occurred in potatoes,
there might well be a reaction
against farm supports which
would carry far beyond a point
of justice and safety.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.