Stupidity of Nazi Leaders
Shown Up in German's Book
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A book has appeared in Germany which should rank high among historical revelations about the Nazi era. It was written by Paul Schmidt, Interpreter and general handy man for Hitler until the last, cataclysmic days. Roughly translated, its title is "Silent Actor on the Diplomatic Scene, 1923-1945."
The book, it seems to me, has the imprint of truth in matters in which Schmidt has no personal interest. My own simple test is that in his account of what happened at the economic conference in London in 1933, in which I was a participant, Schmidt is more scrupulously accurate in detail than are reputable American historians.
The value of the book is in what may well be an equally meticulously accurate account of the reactions of Hitler and Ribbentrop in their great moments of decision. For Schmidt was present at all their momentous international meetings from 1934 to 1944.
Schmidt writes that Ribbentrop and Hitler were completely surprised by Pearl Harbor.
*
Cordell Hull states in his memoirs that there had been an agreement that if Japan should go to war with the United States, Germany would follow. Schmidt denies this. He says that Hitler decided after the news came that, as a matter of prestige, "he would beat Roosevelt to the declaration of war which he expected from the United States."
Schmidt says, further, that Hitler and Ribbentrop believed that the war with Japan would completely occupy the United States for an "almost endless" time. No one in the German high command had the slightest idea that a great catastrophe might come.
They were equally stupid in estimating Great Britain. Schmidt says that when Hitler invaded Poland he did not expect the British to declare war.
Schmidt himself delivered the British note and translated it for the Nazi big brass. He writes:
"When I had ended, complete silence reigned...after a time that seemed to me like an eternity (Hitler) turned to Ribbentrop 'What now?' he asked with a furious look in his eyes which meant that Ribbentrop had misinformed him about the British."
Ribbentrop answered "in a low voice" that the French would be next.
"Goering turned and said, 'If we lose this war, may heaven be merciful to us.'
"Goebbels stood in a corner, looking like a drenched dog."
These were some of the people who ruled the destinies of men,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.