Subsidies Proposed for Firms
Hurt by Foreign Competition
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Paul Hoffman, presumably
with the approval of President
Truman, is now entertaining
the idea of further lowering
of our tariffs and setting up
a series of subsidies to compensate for the losses suffered
by American businesses and
labor.
The proposal, so far as it
has been reported, is to select
a number of tariff schedules
for reduction, in order to permit certain foreign goods to
enter and find a market here.
It is suggested that about $1,-
000,000,000 worth of such
goods would be received. Then
the industries in America
which would be injured in the
process would receive direct
subsidies from the Treasury.
The workers who would be
thrown out of employment
would receive extended unemployment relief. It is further
reported that the plan would
also involve the re-education
of displaced American workers
in new skills to enable them
to find new employment.
This novel form of state
aid suggests the perplexity
brought about in the administration of Marshall aid by the
failure or partial failure of European devaluation after a
winter's trial.
When Sir Stafford Cripps
announced the devaluation of
the pound and other European
countries followed suit last
fall, it was hoped that the
volume of exports to the
United States from Europe
would rise and compensate
for the dollar shortage in those
countries. That happened when
England devalued in 1931, and
the losses in employment here
were so great that Roosevelt
retaliated in 1933 by leaving
gold and devaluating the dollar.
This time, the result has
been different. European producers have found it easier
to win new customers in their
own soft currency markets.
It has also been found that
American efficiency is so great
that, despite high wages and
high costs of raw materials,
we are still able to produce
goods cheaper than those made
by low-paid European workers.
It might be added that British manufacturers still seem
to be unable to satisfy American demands in styles and
usefulness. This disappointment is one of the reasons why
the British people are slowly
comprehending the serious
situation that faces them, despite their acceptance of austerity and despite the cheerful
propaganda of the Labor government.
The fear is rising that the
end of Marshall aid will come
in 1952 and they will still be
unable to support themselves.
The American proposal to
create unemployment deliberately, even for a worthy purpose, is already seriously worrying labor union economists.
Their concern is still greater
because of the present gentle
rise of unemployment for other reasons. The fact is that
the plan is more likely to be
opposed by the unions than by
business management generally.
It is hard to evaluate the
scheme without concrete examples of the specific lines of
goods that would be involved,
because there are individual
problems involved in every
tariff-protected industry.
In the watch industry, for
example, American manufacturers claim protection because in wartime they are required to make other fine precision instruments. To re-educate their workers, if that
were possible, would deny us
the very sort of skills essential
to national defense. Much the
same sort of situation would be
present in the machine tool industry.
The tariff is of no importance in the automobile industry. In the textile industry,
re-education would be difficult,
and the size of subsidies would
be compounded by the general
problems that are already present.
The Hoffman idea needs a
great deal of spelling out before it can command the support of people who are already
feeling the tax burden of existing subsidies of many sorts.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.