Pension Demands Put Us
in Economic Squirrel Cage
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
One of the outstanding features of the great Truman inflation has been the fast growth of pension plans of all sorts. The veterans, as might have been expected, have come first. Then, with John L. Lewis in the lead, we have had pensions mixed up with almost every drive by the unions for higher returns. In the States, especially in Western States, there have been notable gains by pensioners. And a cardinal point in the Truman program has been the broadening of Federal schemes for social security.
Since all pension provisions, including private insurance and private savings, must draw their support from the productivity of our economic system, these plans have a vital relationship to each other. It is about time for our economists to take collective account of all these charges and to tell us what the bill will be 10 or 25 years from now. And it is high time that the various governmental agencies concerned and the unions take note of what may happen to their pet plans if all their competitors get what they want, too.
This whole movement has been like an oil rush into a field where each well draws from the potential resources of every other well and the rule of devil-take-the-hindmost prevails. A lot of old folks are going to spend their last years in bitter lamentation if all this goes on without some coordinated thinking.
Under the kind of Federal administration that this country needs, the President and his economic advisers would do that co-ordinated thinking and figuring for all of us. But the President and his social security people are contestants in this battle for a slice of the pie.
The union bosses are eager to get what they can from employers and thus earn the continued support of dues-payers. The old-age-pension organizations in the States are concerned in getting votes and not in studying economic trends.
The plain fact is that all these obligations cannot be met out of any predictable increase in the productivity and wealth of the nation.
Take the John L. Lewis plan as an example. His pension fund for miners over 62 years of age is fed by a private tax on every ton of coal. It is supposed to pay beneficiaries at the rate of $100 a month. But already we hear that this fund is inadequate because the number of tons of coal upon which royalty is levied is diminishing. Two sides of the Lewis strategy are in conflict. His demands are enforced by making coal scarce. When he orders the miners to take a phony vacation, the flow into the pension fund comes down to a trickle. The higher the price of coal—loaded as it is with royalties and what not—the more inventive minds will work to find substitutes for coal. Fair deal friends of labor work for the building of water-power projects which cut the demand for coal. And the atomic age, vigorously promoted by billions of Federal dollars, may turn coal into a waste product.
Meanwhile, mounting government costs produce more inflation and cut the value of every dollar which must give bread and butter to old people. And every person who through thrift has gathered something for old age, and then through taxation and inflation loses his savings, will join the ranks of those who want more pensions. We are living in an economic squirrel cage.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.