Fair Deal economists are telling us over and over that without great military outlays and vast gifts of goods to Europe and elsewhere our economy would die in its tracks.
It is clear, moreover, because of the departure of the conservative adviser Nourse, that these economists now have undisputed access to the President. And, since the President shapes the policies of ECA Administrator Hoffman, we are now beginning to hear that ECA deliveries must not stop in 1952.
And so if these fancy economists prevail and the public sustains the politicians who believe them, we are consigned to an endless course of producing and paying taxes for wealth that must be given away.
That this economic theory is wrong needs hardly be argued. For so long as this roundelay continues, the nation will be losing real wealth, and our standard of living will slowly deteriorate. Even the vigorous cow that produces quantities of milk that keep the milking machines busy must grow old, deteriorate and die.
The economists who find no solution to our productive surplus except giving are like the politicians whom they serve, seeing no farther than the next election. But responsible, producing Americans must look to the long run.
European leaders who not only borrow our goods but the ideas of Fair Deal economists find these theories most convenient. In England, France and especially in Germany, traveling Americans hear on all sides: "You have no reason to claim our gratitude. If we had not taken off your hands your great surpluses of factory and farm products, you would have had a terrible depression these three years. You are the ones to be grateful. We have kept you prosperous."
The two British political parties have not used these exact words, but in their official pronouncements they have given scant attention to the American contribution to their country's survival. Churchill makes acknowledgment to us only to justify whipping the Socialists for their wastefulness.
Perhaps with a reasonable amount of patience we can endure ingratitude. We can, especially, if we believe that we are paying for peace, not thanks. We can endure hurt feelings for a while. We have done that before.
But a more serious matter than hurt feelings is involved. So long as Europe is convinced that rich Uncle Sam must give or perish, they will live in happy expectation of perpetual care. Their own capacity to produce will never recover. They will live from crisis to crisis by appealing to us. We shall not only exhaust our own wealth but destroy those whom we benefit.
Here at home we must face simple and indisputable facts. Suppose the cold war should end and Europe would need no more aid. That might mean that $20,000,000,000 could be cut from our national budget. It would mean that taxpayers would have $20,000,000,000 more in purchasing and investing power. It would mean more goods for our own people—more and better things for everyone—and more factories and machinery to make such goods.
Economically, the only people who would lose would be the bureaucracy, the expensive machinery that we use to exact the taxes and manage the spending of the money. And that would be a loss that could happily be endured.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.