Congress Embarrasses
Truman With Powers
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
By giving the President government spends one of
more economic controls than eight.
he asked for, Congress has Moreover, there is no organi-
been able to create a problem zation in sight to assume the
never before faced by a Chief administration of controls.
Executive. Roosevelt, with his passion
It is hardly necessary to re- for executive orders, had set
cite the reasons for this action up several outfits, before he
by Congress. It was dictated got control powers from Con-
on the Republican side by a gress.
firm purpose not to be accused ★
later of hindering the war ef- It was thought when the
fort. And, Democrats, even National Security Resources
those politically loyal to the Board was created that it
President, have voted him would be a stand-by organiza-
these vast discretionary pow- tion for controls if ever they
ers because they could not were needed. The first chair-
solve the problem themselves. man of that board believed
★ that it should have that role.
If, as is probable, a great But the Cabinet members op-
many prices go up, every Con- posed such powers, and Presi-
gressman will say in his dent Truman agreed with
speeches this fall that he vot- them. And so there are stand-
ed to control them and that by powers, without a stand-by
the responsibility is the Presi- organization.
dent's. Also, time and much talk of
If the President acts under control have worked inexor-
the legislation and, as would ably to raise prices and to
be probable, many injustices make a roll-back of prices im-
appear, shortages are created possible. There has been much
and inventories are ruinously talk of rolling back prices to
forced down, the President a June average. But here we
and not Congress will be are, past the middle of Au-
blamed. And all the piety gust, and prices have pulled
and wit with which the Presi- out of line. Spot commodi-
dent excoriated the 80th Con- ties are between 10 and 20%
gress will not avail him. Presi- higher, and the Bureau of La-
dent Roosevelt, who was a bor Statistics, cost-of-living in-
glutton for punishment, had dex is up about 4%.
plenty of trouble with a larger ★
but much simpler problem. One of the greatest troubles
★ that would be encountered in
For this is not total mobili- rolling back prices is the fact
zation but mobilization by in- that many increases have orig-
stallments. And nobody can inated in foreign markets.
tell how large the installments These simply cannot be rolled
should be. We produce 100,- back, because the importer
000,000 tons of steel, but the who has paid higher prices
present war need is for per- and has his cargoes afloat
haps only 5,000,000. How much would be ruinously squeezed.
control is needed to make cer- If, to relieve him, exceptions
tain adequate supplies with- should be made, then other
out price rises on this frac- exceptions would have to be
tion? A similar problem arises made all along the line.
with lumber and many other For many reasons, includ-
commodities. In 1944, the Fed- ing the foregoing examples,
eral government spent one over-all price control in an
dollar of every two spent by economy not yet at war is an
the nation. Now the Federal impossible task. But Congress
has nevertheless generously
bestowed that task upon the
President.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.