New York City Corruption
Gives Gov. Dewey an Issue
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
At last Gov. Dewey has a
campaign exactly to his liking.
Time and again in his campaigns in the past he has been
irked by the necessity of keeping his appeal in the high
ranges of generality and international policy. At such
times he would say over and over to his close associates:
"This is not my kind of contest. I am at my natural best
attacking corruption and fighting for clean government."
★
This time he has his corruption to fight and his clean government to defend. For the ancient habits of Tammanyism
have spread their greedy claws over the great city of New
York. Protection for gambling has apparently been extended
by the police on a wholesale scale. A police commissioner
has been forced out, and evidence now connects high police
officials with protection. A big gambling combine raking in millions yearly has been
disclosed.
None of this mess has implicated former Mayor O'Dwyer,
but he was nevertheless fortunate to be given the Mexican
Ambassadorship by President Truman just as the storm
broke.
★
Acting Mayor Vincent Impellitteri was denied a Mayoralty
nomination by the bosses, and as a result he is running as an
independent. He has every motive now to lift the lid. The
bosses and their candidate, Ferdinand Pecora, are bitterly
angry at Impellitteri.
The acting Mayor has appointed as police commissioner,
Thomas F. Murphy, who also has a score to settle with
the bosses and the Truman administration. Murphy is a
very striking and colorful figure whose great ability was
shown in his successful prosecution of Alger Hiss. Feeling
that this achievement deserved some reward, he aspired to
be a Federal judge. This was denied him.
Now he is in a position to reveal the grimy associations
of organized crime with politics.
★
Serious irregularities are already shown in other parts of
the city government. An investigation of conditions in the
business management of the schools is under way. There
are hints of other scandals.
All of this will seriously endanger the chances of city and
State Democratic candidates.
It may result in the election of Edward Corsi, who was
Dewey's choice as candidate for Mayor.
It will especially promote the chances of Dewey and of
Joseph Hanley, candidate for the U.S. Senate against Sen.
Herbert Lehman.
The election of Lehman a year ago was no landslide, although he was running against
John Foster Dulles, who was not well known. Hanley is
very strong up-State.
In New York City, where thousands of Negro voters are
a power, the virile Marcantonio has placed another road-
block in Lehman's way. He has nominated on his American
Labor Party ticket for Senator the venerable William E.
Dubois, 82. Dubois has a vast influence upon his race. He
has been speaking and writing in its behalf for 60 years.
★
I am not familiar with his present state of mental and
physical health, but I well remember Dubois as an eloquent
speaker and an unquestioned master of the English language. He will get many votes
—all of them deducted from Lehman's potential.
Dewey's opponent, Walter A. Lynch, is having a hard time
making a case.
Dewey, meanwhile, is campaigning with more spark and
energy than he has revealed in 10 years. He is flaying the
bosses, especially Edward J. Flynn, the major Democratic
figure in the State. Dewey is once more the defender of
right and the scourge of wrong. He is Dewey the prosecutor and that means a great
deal.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.