The real issue with the
RFC is that there is an RFC,
and the effective way to cure
the disease is to dig out the
roots, rather than to trim the
branches.
The revelations of the mink
coat affair, the free vacations
for official panhandlers at a
Florida hotel, the lending of
government money to pay the
government taxes, the indescribable bad business judgment in some of the largest
loans, the silly purposes of
some of the loans, the callous
use of the RFC as a political
grab bag—all have served a
useful purpose in concentrating public attention on the institution. But this provides
only the scenic effects for the
real problem.
The shock to the conscience
of the country that these matters have provided was also
needed. For they are easily
understood symptoms of a low
tone in public business which
goes far beyond this agency
and apparently permeates the
whole Truman administration.
The responsibility for this
roots in the character and political code of the President
himself, who has deliberately
and with complete comprehension of what he was doing applied the methods and standards of a municipal machine to
the great executive department of the nation.
Sen. Fulbright deserves a
great deal of credit for bringing all this into the open, but
the Senator’s proposed remedy
is not a real remedy at all. To
fire the RFC board and appoint
a single administrator could
serve no real purpose, unless
the Senate through its power
of confirmation might force the
President to find another Jesse
Jones.
The real question is why the
government should lend money
to individuals or specific companies at all. The Hoover Commission’s task force recommended the abolition of all
such direct lending. Hoover
himself took that view, and he
is the father of the RFC. But
there were enough Trumanites on the commission to prevent the commission itself
from making that recommendation.
In a great depression it may
be necessary to extend government aid to lending institutions
such as banks. But that is not
necessary now. And in a war
economy it may be necessary
to lend money to some war
contractors to expedite production. But that could be done
under the Wilson setup.
Making direct loans is the
function of private lenders
whose primary purpose is to
avoid losses and make a reasonable profit. A free credit
market is the only assurance
that proper safeguards will be
observed. And in such a market it is private money that
is risked, not the money of
taxpayers.
Jesse Jones himself makes
this recommendation, and he
is the best equipped person
to form a judgment on the subject: Congress should abolish
the RFC and all similar lending agencies.