Governors Seem Chilly
to Spread of TVA Idea
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
WHITE SULPHUR
SPRINGS, W.Va.—The most
important result of the annual
Governors' conference held
here last week is likely to be a
real study, for the guidance of
State governments, of all plans
for water management in river
valleys.
For several years Federal
officials have been carrying on
great propaganda to apply the
TVA model of government to
other valleys—first, the Colum-
bia, then, the Missouri; finally,
everywhere. Governors of the
States in these valleys bitterly
oppose this plan on the
grounds that such authorities
would invade the established
rights of States.
The subject has come up over
and over again in these conferences. But this time a whole
session considered in detail alternative means of water development, with full participation by the States.
Govs. Langlie of Washington,
Peterson of Nebraska, Robins
of Idaho and McKay of Oregon, notable exponents of the
rights of States, made forceful
arguments.
*
Gov. Lausche of Ohio pointed out how his State, with
some Federal aid, had accomplished an important project of
its own.
The trend of thinking on the
subject, and this seems to go
down to the grass roots in the
States, is against applying the
TVA plan to other watersheds.
Most generally favored
among the Governors is some
co-ordinated scheme by which
the States, under the compact
powers of the U.S. Constitution and with the Federal government as a partner, will retain control and management
of their own resources. It is true that the Federal government will have to supply engineering skill and money in
loans. But since the water and
the land belong to the States,
the improvements therein
should also be State property.
To achieve this, a study by
the Council of State Governments has been initiated on
which a report will be due
next year.
Gov. Driscoll of New Jersey,
supported by several other
Governors, vigorously protested against the growing practice of States running to Washington for help on matters
which are clearly State responsibilities.
*
Driscoll made the very effective point that there is no
reason why States cannot borrow the money on self-liquidating projects more economically than the Federal government can raise it by high taxation
and deficit spending. He pointed especially to the Port of
New York Authority, a brilliantly successful interstate
agency which does its own construction and borrows money through bond issues.
It has never been clearly
proved that Federal operation is an economical way of developing State-owned resources. In fact, the contrary
may well be true.
The mental confusion of a
few Governors who disagreed
with Driscoll revealed that this
point has really never been
thought through. The habit of
altogether too many States is
to take what they can get from
Washington, with little consideration of alternatives.
Sound economy as well as
the preservation of State integrity demands a real review
of this problem.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.