Putting a 'Parity Price'
on Government Bonds
BY RAYMOND MOLEY.
A sound economist, Sumner
Slichter of the Harvard Business School, has made the
revolutionary suggestion of
government savings bonds
guaranteed to yield at maturity a value equal to the present purchasing power of the
dollar. This proposal, he claims, offer purchasers
real protection against future
rises in prices. It would also,
he claims, greatly reduce the
incentive to buy goods now as
a hedge against inflation and
prevent the dreaded "flight
from the dollar," which might
well be the last stage of inflationary rises.
★
Julius Hirsch, an economist
who lived through the great
German inflation of the '20s,
finds much to commend the
Slichter suggestion. Hirsch
points out that a plan similar
to that proposed by Slichter
paved the way for the re-establishment of the value of German currency after the peak
of the German inflation.
What happened in Germany
was the issuance by the Weimar Republic of bonds, the interest and repayment of which
were guaranteed at a specific
number of marks per dollar or
a specific weight of rye. The
effect, says Hirsch, was astonishing. Farmers who had long
since refused to take paper
marks then accepted the new
"dollar" mark or "index" mark
at its face value. So did business and labor.
This mark stopped the panic,
and, later, the so-called renten-
mark completed the process of
stabilization.
The main objection to the
Slichter idea will be the effect
that the issuance of such guaranteed bonds might have on
the prices of the government
bonds already issued. If a large
number of the new bonds were
issued, there might well set in
a flight from the old bonds to
the new. Certainly, if such a
plan should be tried, it ought
to be done on a very limited
scale at first.
To the extent to which it
might safely be tried, it would
check the scare buying of commodities and real estate and
lessen verspeculation generally. It would also measurably
lessen the danger of a new
wave of demands for wage increases based on the rise in the
cost of living.
★
Moreover, the cost to the
government would not be excessive. If the plan succeeded
in checking a serious rise in
prices and wages, the government, which is the largest
buyer, might in fact save as
much as the plan would cost
it as a borrower.
The fact is that, despite tall
talk of paying for these new
war costs by raising taxes, the
government will still be an exceedingly large borrower. It
would find it vastly easier to
get new money by offering
such guaranteed bonds than by
trying to sell more of the old
types to people who have already suffered a loss in savings
which are represented by old
bonds.
These are advantages which
might well accrue from a limited trial of the plan.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.