Some Fancy Accounting
in Arizona Water Plan
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
BOISE, Ida.—As I have traveled westward, through Yellowstone Park and into this productive and prosperous basin of the Snake River, my major reactions have been to the natural treasures and beauties of the region and to what strong and energetic people have done with and for these advantages.
We seem to be far from the perplexities and strife of international affairs, higher taxes and economic controls. Certainly, it would seem that the devious ways of government bookkeeping would have little to do with all this natural wealth.
But the connection is real and important and very serious. Two illustrations will suffice for this point. The first is almost humorous. The second involves the entire future of the development of areas such as this. Both have to do with the fact that, as years pass, it is becoming more and more expensive to reclaim waste land in the West and to make it fit for human habitation and individual enterprise.
The original principle followed by government in reclaiming land by irrigation and other improvements was that the farmers who were benefited should repay the costs over a period of years.
★
This principle was willingly accepted by the hardy people who settled on such land. It is the principle that should be followed for all time.
But it is to the interest of some bureaucrats and politicians to undermine this principle and at the same time to create a state of dependence by some on others and to reap political advantage from such dependence.
The method followed by such bureaucrats and politicians is to rig government bookkeeping to make it seem that great reclamation and power projects are paying for themselves, while in reality a generous subsidy is being paid by Federal taxpayers.
In the Senate debate last month on the great Central Arizona project, it was pointed out that the Bureau of Reclamation had assigned as part payment for that project the so-called “recreation benefits.”
This means that it is estimated that a certain number of people will come in the course of a vacation to see the dam. Their expenses all the way from home and back will be estimated—expenses for railroad fare or gasoline, lodgings and food. These will be totaled and set off against the cost of the project to the government.
This sounds almost too fantastic to be true. For the money these curious people spend does not come back to the government at all. It is not a legitimate item to set off against cost. It goes to innkeepers, gas stations and railroads. The taxpayer makes it up when the cost of the project is met.
Another trick is more complicated and more serious. It has to do with what is called the “interest component” in a reclamation project.
In the beginning and for half a century, the farmer was supposed to pay over a period of 40 years the original cost of the irrigation project and the maintenance expenses.
Now, since many of these projects produce not only irrigation but electric power, the idea has been developed that the interest component in the proceeds of the sale of power should not be returned to the Treasury, but to a fund under the control of the Bureau of Reclamation which can be used to finance other new projects, thus loading the taxpayer with the cost of subsidizing power users.
★
This idea is cropping up in new projects. Thus, what started as a self-sustaining enterprise of government will, unless stopped by Congress, end in a gigantic paternalism. This is just another example of the decay of morality in a Socialistic government.