Governors Feel Deeply
on States' Rights Issue
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
GATLINBURG, Tenn.—
There has been plenty of political predicting and palaver
at this, the 43rd annual Governors’ conference, but beneath
these harmless exercises is a cold war that grows warmer at
every meeting of these representatives of the States. That war
concerns the issue of States’ rights and is very much deeper
and broader than the civil rights concern of the Southern
States. It involves the whole front on which the Federal
government has been pushing back the States from the position
to which they are entitled under the Constitution.

It was a northern Democrat who sounded the keynote on this
point at the outset of the conference. The unpredictable Frank
Lausche, Governor of Ohio and chairman of the conference,
bitterly protested the enlargement of Federal power through the
growth of grants in aid.

He pointed out that beginning in 1914 there has been a rapid
increase in the flow of Federal money to the States—for
agriculture, for vocational education, highways, school
construction and all sorts of welfare. This has grown to such
an extent that about 20% of all money spent by the States
comes from the Federal government. At the same time, local
governments, cities, counties and school districts have become
humble dependents on State grants.

Under Truman, who is the head of a party that is supposed to
stand for States’ rights, this trend has leaped ahead. In the last
five years State grants to localities have doubled and Federal
grants to States have tripled.

With this change the great Federal establishment has also made
great inroads on the powers of the States, for, as Lausche said:
“With money goes power. With power goes control, and
increasing central control has been a grave danger to the
American type of democracy—a type based on local self-
government, local control, and direct civilian participation.”

This money is not made in Washington. In fact, none of it is
created by the Federal government. It is collected from the
States—from the citizens and industries of the States. The
Federal tax collector reaches into tax sources once within the
province of State and local government. Hence this process of
grabbing and giving operates on two fronts to weaken the
citizen’s control of his government. Every dollar taken away cuts
down the capacity of the States to support themselves. And
every dollar they receive acts as a narcotic which weakens their
self-reliance and sense of responsibility.

Throughout the meetings here this resentment has taken specific
form in the private comments of many Governors and in their
open protests. In a very lively session on social security and
welfare, Govs. Lee of Utah, Pyle of Arizona, Peterson of
Nebraska, Talmadge of Georgia, Shivers of Texas, Byrnes of
South Carolina, and again Lausche of Ohio gave point to the
manner in which the Federal government has arrogantly told the
States to do its bidding or else be cut off from Federal money.
These Governors gave Federal Social Security Administrator
Ewing three of the toughest hours of his life. The protesters, it
should be noted, were of both parties and they were from the
North as well as the South.

This is an issue with which Republicans might well make common
cause with the South. It remains to be seen whether they will
take advantage of it in 1952.