BRITISH POLITICIANS
CAN INSTRUCT OURS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In almost every line of activity the United Kingdom is less efficient than the United States.
We produce more of steel, textiles and hundreds of other goods with fewer workers and in much less time.
But in the routine running of a political campaign, in party organization, in the creation of political issues, in the quality and effectiveness of campaign literature and speeches, we are, in contrast, inefficient, wasteful, lumbering and confusing. Ordinarily, we get out half or less of our electorate. Britain got out 85% in 1950.
Imagine what would happen in our various political headquarters if there should suddenly be a call for an election campaign to begin on Oct. 4 or 5 and to end in a general nationwide election on Oct. 25—a fact now determined by the Prime Minister of England. There would be indescribable confusion and the result would be an election in which nothing would be decided and only a small fraction of our people would vote.
It is true that England, Scotland and Wales are together smaller than some of our States and our population is more than three times as large. But this is not the only or most important factor in the difference. Much more important is the fact that a crisis in Parliament may precipitate an election at no time appointed by law and often suddenly without warning. Hence, party machinery must be kept in working order to meet any emergency.
To begin with, there are two authentic consolidated parties in Britain. They maintain permanent national headquarters and have frequent party conventions where real issues are discussed and decided upon.
In most of the constituencies, of which there are more than 600, some sort of continuing organization is maintained, with a conveniently located office. Voters are made aware of this organization and this headquarters office.
Members of Parliament keep in close touch with their constituency organizations, even though they may not live nearby. Potential rivals out of office are more or less in evidence building up support for the next election.
No doubt, at this moment the two national parties are practically ready with their manifestoes. These are declarations of party policies, longer but more specific than American party platforms. The manifestoes are widely disseminated among voters.
Each party also has a sizable book packed with information for candidates and other speakers. In the 1950 campaign the Labor Party's Speaker's Handbook comprised 500 closely printed pages and the Conservative Campaign Guide had 700 pages.
While there are thousands of meetings and speeches in the constituencies, there are only about a dozen national broadcasts. The air of England is not full of poorly prepared harangues, hammy songs and tiresome slogans paid for by this or that sponsoring committee or individual.
The two major parties and the liberals are allotted exactly the same number of periods of about three-quarters of an hour each. These are filled by the most prominent and best speakers of the parties. The speeches are meticulously phrased and well delivered.
There is no reason for confused voting, and no excuse for ill-informed voters. The British Broadcasting Corp. reaches every receiver in the United Kingdom.
While the law severely limits the amount each candidate can spend, there are many volunteer workers, solicitors, and canvassers, well trained and disciplined.
There will be no reason next month why Britain cannot make a clear-cut decision for years to come. It is facing a choice most important to itself and to the world. And the machinery through which that decision will be made is the best that popular government has ever devised.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.