Victor and Vanquished
Are Happy Over Peace
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
SAN FRANCISCO—A quick
test on the history of peace
treaties through the ages suggests that this show in San
Francisco is quite unique. I
suspect that most wars have
ended at meetings of grim-
faced diplomats—grim on one
side of the table because of
the determination of victors
to finish the job that arms
began, and grim on the other
side because of the pain and
humiliation of defeat.
There is nothing of that sort
here.
The chief victor in the war,
the United States, has been
doing all it could for six
years to help the defeated enemy. It is anxiously trying to
be generous and intends to
help a lot more in the future,
for its interests demand that
the defeated former enemy
be its friend and ally in the
future.
★
The defeated enemy, Japan,
is rapturously happy to find
that its enemy is after all its
best friend. Beyond this treaty will be other agreements
to cement the friendship and
alliance. Thus, the two nations that inflicted the most
damage on each other are
most happy to be friends.
The defeated enemy, it is
true, will be signing away a
lot, but since it has all been
lost for so long, the hurt has
vanished. And reparations,
usually in order at peace conferences, will in this case be
replaced by promises from the
victor to give more than almost any reparations have
ever amounted to.
The only member in the
whole assemblage that seems
to be grim faced is our former copartner in victory, Soviet Russia. And no one can
tell exactly whether the seeming grimness is just Slavic
stolidity or one of the best
pieces of character acting ever
seen on any stage.
The other dozens of nations
represented here are, with the
exception of Australia, New
Zealand and the Philippines,
largely window dressing, if an
observer may use such undiplomatic language. One is constrained to wonder if they are
not asking themselves the familiar slogan of the late war:
"Is this trip necessary?"
There is some point to this
question, especially in these
days when all the nations, including our own, are trying
to find the money to arm
themselves to try to make a
little more certain that there
will not be another war and
another peace treaty.
The experienced and energetic Ambassador Dulles has
done such a fine job in getting
everybody to agree on this
treaty that nothing much remains to do but sign on the
line. The State Department
has let these non-Communist
colleagues know that they accepted an invitation to come,
see, and sign—and not to
amend or debate.
Of course, the rules would
permit some 50 speeches of
one hour each. But the substance of such speeches could
be little but pleasantries and
tributes to this or that.
★
The really important business is all ahead and behind
this gathering. It was very important to join the United
States with Australia and New
Zealand in a treaty of mutual
defense. It will be very important to set up a little later
a bilateral security agreement
between the United States and
Japan.
Then it will be most important to enlarge these agreements into a big Pacific pact.
For peace in this world, if it
is to be made secure, must
come through regional alliances of that kind, rather than
through one-world debating
societies.
Meanwhile, because the real
issues to be settled here are
only incidental, public interest turns to speculation about
the Russians. That is probably
exactly what the Russians enjoy. For they would be blind
to all the evidence if they expected to have any right to
amend this treaty.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.