GOP PREFERS
TAFT
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
LINCOLN, Neb.—This is
written after this observer has
been traveling for two months
through a good many Middle-
Western, Western and Coast
States. In the course of such
travels a political commentator
must pick up many points of
view on prospects and probabilities concerning the great
decisions that must be made
next year at the conventions
and the election.
If such a commentator is
true to his trade, he cannot,
at least at this time, be dogmatic in his conclusions. There
are many things on people’s
minds other than politics. Sentiment is scattered, nebulous,
undecided. But everybody asks
questions, and the most common ones are: “Will Truman
run again?” “Will the Republicans nominate Taft or Eisenhower or someone else?”
*
On the basis of such knowledge as I have gained, I shall
try to comment on these questions.
Almost every informed person believes that Truman will
run. No one seems to find any
reason to counteract his loyalty to the party and its office-
holders, his great confidence
that he can perform another
miracle and his real love of the
job.
West of Pennsylvania a
great majority of politically-
minded Republicans prefer
Taft. There is some feeling
that he would have a hard job
to get the nomination.
A small number of regulars
and a great number of Republicans who are not active in
politics favor Eisenhower.
There is great doubt about
whether he will or can permit his name to be advanced
as a serious candidate for the
nomination.
*
Even among the Governors
and other political figures who
favor Eisenhower as a candidate there is a positive opinion
that if the general wants
to run he will have to declare
himself reasonably soon and
state his views.
No informed person seems
to feel that there can be another nomination of the Willkie
type—that is, a spur-of-the-
moment decision in the convention.
No one doubts that the general would be elected if nominated. There is, however, some
opposition to an Eisenhower
nomination that was not apparent three or four years ago.
In a poll conducted by the
Lincoln Journal among the
delegates and alternates from
this State at the 1948 Republican convention, 40% were for
Taft; 25% were for Eisenhower, and 5% for Stassen.
There is a definite sentiment
in this State for its native
son, Gen. Albert C. Wede-
meyer. Friends may seek to
give Sen. Wherry a favorite-
son status.
*
In California Gov. Warren
is definitely a candidate, and
he will have the large California delegation at the beginning of the convention. Whether
he will have support from
other States is not clear. Stassen will have some, but not
much support. Even his own
State is not so enthusiastically
for him as it used to be. Dirksen of Illinois is mentioned.
Dewey is not seriously considered anywhere.
Finally, there is an air of
uncertainty everywhere as to
whether Truman can be
beaten. This is not an expression of popularity but of resignation.
All this is subject to change,
for all honest speculation now
must be tentative.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.