Aptitude Deferments Are Peculiarly Inapt
Once more President Truman's reverential attitude toward the Pentagon planners has been disastrous. His approval of the plan of the Army to defer college boys who rank high in an aptitude test will cost him still more points in the scale of public confidence, in which his rating already is deplorably low.
For the purpose of measuring the wisdom that prompted him to accept this Army plan let us consider what might have been the attitude of some former Presidents if they had been faced with the same choice.
Woodrow Wilson was, to be sure, a college administrator himself, and as a student he would have ranked high in any aptitude test. But he undoubtedly knew from experience how imperfect any such test is likely to be. For he knew, as any professor or college administrator knows, how impossible it is to measure the future worth of a student by a test given early in his college course.
The glib, precocious, and those with the advantage of a prep school which aims toward the standards of a specific college do best in such a test. Later those who do not do so well very often forge ahead. I have been told by college administrators that boys educated in celebrated prep schools do best early in their college years but that boys from public high schools start low and finish high.
Then let us consider what
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Herbert Hoover might have done. Hoover worked hard to get into college and earned his way through. But a sense of stern duty would have repelled him from the escape from military service on the basis of his grades. The very fact that he came up the hard way would have kept him from adopting any policy so reeking in special privilege as this is.
Franklin D. Roosevelt would have seen the dangerous political consequences of such a plan. He would shrewdly have seen the bitterness that would be engendered among those inducted against the smart boys still in college.
He would have seen the danger of stirring deep prejudice of other sorts, and he would never have taken the Army point of view.
Rather, he would have called in university heads and would have put the decision up to them. Moreover, Roosevelt, with a keen sense of public relations, would have known that newspapermen, Congressmen and others would have singled out some of the questions of such a test for wide publicity and ridicule.
Think of deferring a man because he knew the author of "The Happy Warrior" or could place Suleiman the Magnificent in history or could explain relativity!
The finger-pointing that would follow such deferment would force the sensitive and spirited boys to reject such deferment and enlist. There would remain those dull in spirit but bright in brains—and the number of such is legion.
College would fall in public esteem. They would be known as havens of privilege rather than harbors of opportunity.
If the Army needs young men of superior intelligence and it wishes such men to be trained further, let us take them and send them back to college in uniform.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.