MISGUIDED
MORRIS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Watchdog Bureau
Newbold Morris, in the first
of a series of newspaper articles in which he proposes
to tell about his experiences in Washington, said that a
department dedicated to checking up on government departments is badly needed and that
he will recommend a "permanent investigator."
A similar suggestion, that a sort of supergovernment be
set up to watch the administration, was presented a while
ago by Frank Pace, formerly Budget Director and now Secretary of the Army. His idea
set off some approving editorial speculation along that
line.
All this, however, in the light of practical facts and
conditions seems to be rather naive and foggy-minded, if
not dangerous, for a number of very good reasons.
*
Even if the government in Washington were not the vast,
rambling organization that it is, the notion of such surveillance would be repugnant to
good administration and intolerable to honest and efficient public officials. Operating
personnel would be in constant conflict with the watchdog personnel. The result
would be bad morale, wasted energy and potential administrative paralysis.
A government department, like every other form of organized effort, does best when
it has imaginative, inspirational leadership which communicates to everyone down the
line that quality most commonly known as team spirit.
Mutual confidence within an organization is essential. This
is destroyed when that organization must operate under the
constant shadow of surveillance, if not espionage.
★
The principle involved in such watchfulness is that
everyone is deemed guilty unless proved innocent. Something
like that is present in every part of the huge Soviet government, including the
army, where political agents or spies are everywhere,
watching lest someone show a lapse from Communist
ideology.
Another reason why we should not superimpose such
an agency is that it would seriously impair the constitutional
relations between the executive and legislative
branches of the government.
The equality and independence of the Executive and
Congress were carefully designed exactly to provide a
proper and workable check on each other. Congress through
its committees is or should be the means of protecting the
public interest. Congress would have every reason to
resent an invasion of its own field of operation.
*
The sharp reaction of Congress to the ill-fated appointment
of Newbold Morris showed this jealous concern
for the legislative prerogative. Morris overlooks this constitutional provision in blaming
his difficulties with Congress on a pervading philosophy of
"To the victor belongs the spoils," a phrase which he attributes to Andrew Jackson.
It was not, incidentally, Jackson who said that but Sen.
William L. Marcy of New York. Generations of school
children learned it as Marcy's Maxim.
Most important is the practical impossibility of creating
an agency that could actually survey the immense detail of
government operation. It would have to be so large as to
rival any of the departments themselves, and in turn would
be subject to temptation, incompetence and corruption.
*
Witness the Budget Bureau, which Mr. Pace directed.
When first established under the late Charles G. Dawes, it
had only a handful of employees. But when the Hoover
Commission surveyed it nearly 30 years later the number
of employees had risen to more than 600. The Comptroller
General's office now has thousands of employees. These
two offices, properly headed and used, together with a
good Department of Justice, could provide the President
and Congress with plenty of means of checking on the operations of government.
But all this and supergovernment, too, must fail, if
there is neither the will nor the competence in the White
House to enforce honesty all down the line. Integrity is not
a matter of machinery. It is a matter of personal character,
intelligence and morality.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.