BAILING BRITAIN OUT
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Since it can be assumed that
Winston Churchill is not planning to brave Atlantic gales
for his health, it will be well
for Americans to face squarely
a new request for aid to
Britain.
The objection that many
Americans have had since 1945
for such aid was reasonable.
They said it was no duty of
ours to provide money for the
Labor Party's experiments in
Socialism.
Despite such legitimate objections, we did help, and Attlee's
government wasted much
of that aid in visionary experiments and blundering administration. We paid dearly not
to prove that Socialism would
work, but to prove that even
with outside help Socialism
would not work.
Now, however, the British
people have repudiated Socialism and a Conservative government is struggling to repair the damage. We are going to be asked to help in the
salvage operation.
When Churchill comes and
makes his appeal, it can be assumed that neither he nor
President Truman will suggest
that the ideological slant of
the government has anything
to do with the case. The appeal will be, as it was before,
the great importance to us of
a strong, healthy Britain. But
members of Congress will
weigh the request very definitely on the ideological scale.
And since a majority of Congress, both Democrats and Republicans, are vastly more
sympathetic with the ideals of
Churchill's Conservatives, the
chances of new aid are very
good.
The Conservatives cannot at
once cast off the gratuities of
the welfare state. The British
people have learned too well
to depend upon government.
But the announced policies of
the new Conservative government show that it is determined, however slowly, to return to a free, productive economy. The essence of those
policies is to increase production, to export more, and import less. In short, to give capitalism another chance.
The basis of the new program is to increase the production of coal and steel. The
United Kingdom has plenty of
coal—in the ground. It has
been and can be a vast source
of new wealth. But since the
Socialists nationalized it, production has been so inadequate that even the United
Kingdom is unable to get
along without importing coal.
Literally, they have had to
carry coals to Newcastle. This
is a dreadful reflection upon
the industry.
Also, since the threat and
then the reality of steel nationalization has confronted
that industry, no one either at
home or abroad would risk
new investments in it. Hence,
it has fallen behind.
Generally there has been a
slackening of the work effort
with the inevitable Socialist
shortening of work hours.
It is clear that the first step
in the task of increasing production is to work longer
hours. This might be accomplished by an inducement
based on taxes. For example,
the government might ask the
unions to increase the working week from, say, 40 to 44
hours. On the additional pay
the government would levy no
tax. This ought to increase
production 10%. The loss of
the additional tax would not
hamper the government because taxes have already
reached their limit. And the
trouble in Britain is not inadequate home revenues but inadequate production for export.
With such assurances, the
United States might well make
a further investment in this
troubled neighbor. That patient, once delivered from the
delusions of Socialism, might
again justify our hopes.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.