Hoover and British Tory
Offer the Same Advice
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
No President or ex-President ever coined a better phrase than Herbert Hoover's latest advice to the Republican Party. Its duty, he said, is to "expose, oppose and propose." That is the job ahead in any effort successfully to save the nation from the consequences of present Federal policies.
A similar demand for a more virile policy has recently been made by one of the most promising young Conservatives in the British House of Commons, David Eccles of Chippenham. The gist of a notable speech which he recently made is that, if the Conservative Party expects to govern well after the next election as well as win that election, it must put aside apology and tell the people some unpleasant truths.
One of those truths is that no nation can afford great rearmament and still, by mistaken policies of welfare, develop further a vast class of unproductive bureaucrats and dependents. There must be a last call to free enterprise to produce and then produce some more. And government should reorder its demands on the nation's purse, with less for social reform and visionary experiments in government business.
*
During the 1950 Parliamentary campaign, I was told by a newspaper colleague that Eccles was a man to watch. And so I traveled to his constituency, which centers in Chippenham, midway between London and Bristol. His conduct of his campaign was a model of efficiency, coupled with personal warmth and enthusiasm. When he visited a village he was equipped with knowledge of exactly what that community considered its local problems. Nothing was left to chance, as is so often the case in American election campaigns.
The Labor Party had imposed heavy restrictions on the use of money in campaigns, so there was a dearth of what is sometimes called campaign literature. Paid workers were almost nonexistent.
★
But Eccles made a virtue of what the Labor Party had intended to be a handicap. Many volunteers were drawn into the campaign by the appeal of the attractive and persuasive candidate, and those volunteers traveled from house to house and farm to farm. The denial of money for so-called publicity brought out the soundest lesson that any politician learns or should learn—that there is absolutely no substitute for a man-to-man appeal not in big public meetings but in homes and in the streets and in the fields. The Labor candidate was left at the post with his glamorous manifestoes and promises.
To put some of that warm, personal efficiency into the government of Britain would bring that ailing country back toward something like its former greatness. Its colonies are largely gone, but there is the whole world to trade in. Conservatism both here and in Britain has a future as well as a past, if it will carry a message of honesty and truthfulness on a personal, man-to-man basis straight to the homes of the country.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.