Honor Needs Assistance...
People are going to be drawing all sorts of morals and conclusions from the serious conditions revealed at West Point. Each conclusion will depend on the point of view and personal experience of the person who draws it. Some will say that this is just another case like that of the basketball briberies, in which the morals of boys in schools have been influenced by the low tone of our public and political life. Others will say that the fundamental cause is the over-emphasis that West Point as well as other colleges has placed on athletics. There is a great deal to be said for both these conclusions and it is to be hoped that a great deal will be said.
Since I have a good many years' experience in college teaching, another angle occurs to me. It would seem, from what has already appeared in the newspapers about the nature of the offense for which these young men have been dismissed, that there is something radically wrong about the administration of the routine instruction in the military academy. This sort of thing should never have been allowed to happen.
*
Apparently, the cadets in a given class were all given the same tests, but in different groups and at different times. Men who had taken the tests were in the habit of telling those who had not taken the tests all about the questions. Hence, those who came later for the tests were well prepared with answers. It may be introducing a bit of irrelevant humor to ask how those who had the first look at the questions were able to pass.
BY RAYMOND
MOLEY
Perhaps the football players were all assigned to later groups. This would be worth looking into and perhaps it will be.
The honor system, which presumably the boys voluntarily accepted, prohibited either giving or receiving information about test questions. Apparently this rule has for a long time been more honored in the breach than in the observance,
In my own experience in teaching students under an honor system-students whose moral character was as high as that of any cadet-such an open invitation to cheating was unthinkable.
*
In that experience, when a student missed a test for illness or some other good reason, another test was given. In that case, the poor, hard-working teacher made up another set of questions.
Of course, this system lacked the rigid uniformity of a military system in which all answered the same questions. But it apparently worked better than the West Point system has worked. Even when an honor system prevailed, this bit of caution seemed to be a helpful way of saving honor by removing altogether too obvious a temptation.
If the people administering West Point feel that it is essential that all students in a class take the same tests, then they should give the test on the same day, at the same hour and in the same place. It is not difficult to see that this was a matter well within the possibility of administration.
*
If an officer is able to run a division he ought to be able to handle a large class of cadets in one room. In this instance, as well as in many others, the military mind seems to be unable to operate with the flexibility essential to good administration.
These boys have committed a very serious offense and should be punished. But the administration of the academy, which made this offense so easy to commit and failed to discover and correct it, is apparently guilty of serious negligence.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.