SHOWDOWN
ON POLICY
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It is placing a very low estimate on the foresight of an extraordinarily intelligent man to believe that Gen. MacArthur did not plan it that way. Also, to assume that he did not realize that this means of exit would provide him with the dramatic circumstances necessary to present his case most effectively to the people of this country. We can assume, therefore, that Gen. MacArthur believes that the correction of our Far Eastern policy is more important than what happens to him or to President Truman or the immediate course of the Korean war. And he has chosen to dedicate the greatest and perhaps the final energies of an amazing life to that cause. The country's emotional reaction to this great event shows that MacArthur's judgment so far has been correct.

*

For the administration's Far Eastern policy can be changed by public opinion, despite the stubbornness of the President and of Secretaries Acheson and Marshall. The issue is a conflict between traditional Far Eastern policy of the United States and the Truman-Acheson-Marshall policy. In taking their stand on this, Republicans—notably those who live west of the Hudson River—are on firm ground. The American line of interest and defense in the Far Pacific was established by Secretary Seward in the 1860s. Hamilton Fish, Blaine, Hay and Root stressed this interest and pushed our legitimate line farther to the west. Now, as MacArthur describes it, that line cannot hold if Formosa falls into unfriendly hands. Hence, the very heart of this controversy is the possession of Formosa and the maintenance of a close alliance or some other relationship with Japan.

It is inaccurate to say that the administration has no Far Eastern policy. It has one, and it is in violation of our traditional policy. The Truman-Acheson-Marshall policy would be a retreat from the Far East. Falling back on the still effective but somewhat dimming magic of Roosevelt's name, these people claim that they are carrying out the Cairo declaration in which Chiang Kai-shek was promised that Formosa would be returned to China. That, of course, is what Britain wants and Red China wants and Moscow wants. Japan, too, would be abandoned under the Truman-Acheson-Marshall policy, for Britain now wants Red China to be included in the making of a treaty with that country. The net of all this would be a complete retreat from the Far East, leaving Communism practically no resistance up to the line of the Aleutians and Hawaii. Thus, the fruits of our efforts over half a century or more would be scrapped, and Communist Russia could find its way through warm-water ports to the vast ranges of the Pacific. MacArthur has served his country well over many years. Even his bitter and jealous enemies admit that. But if he can now help public opinion to check the Truman-Acheson-Marshall folly, his last service will be the greatest of all.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.