WHY BRITAIN HAS
TO HAVE OUR HELP
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is never easy for Americans to understand the economic problems of Britain.
Their national economy is wholly unlike ours. With us, foreign trade is incidental.
We could live without it. The United Kingdom would die without it.
In many respects, Britain is like a merchant tailor whose workshop and home are on his premises.
The tailor works in the shop with members of his family. He buys cloth from a factory and makes it into suits which he sells.
The money that comes in must be used to buy food and materials for his family and business. He has some houses on another street which he rents.
That gives him more income. He also owns a farm in the country which a farmer works on shares. The tailor takes his share in food and firewood.
*
Now suppose the tailor meets hard going. His family demands more and works less. His machinery gets old and obsolete. Big factories turn out ready-made clothes and take away many of his customers.
His farmer demands a larger share of the produce of the farm.
In his distress the tailor sells some of his houses to buy food and materials for his product. His bank balance runs lower and lower. His credit grows worse because his ability to repay loans is weakened.
The United Kingdom has an analogous problem. World competition has narrowed its trade. Many parts of its industrial plant have fallen behind the times. Its workers, drugged by Socialist theory and promises, work fewer hours and with less efficiency.
It has burdened business with high taxes to support welfare activities, and hence industry has been unable to replace its old machinery and plant. Its transportation system, now nationalized, is behind the times and mismanaged.
*
Its coal industry, which once produced large exports, cannot supply home needs. Its gold reserves have melted away. Overseas investments have been lost. Since its whole economy depends upon money coming from a surplus of exports over imports, it is now running a huge deficit.
Prime Minister Churchill and Chancellor of the Exchequer Butler at the opening of the new Parliament told the country all the frightening facts about a country which has suffered from six years of Socialist experiment and mismanagement. In October the drain on its gold reserves was running at a rate of £1,350,000,000 a year.
Since there are only £1,100,000,000 left in that reserve, the nation would face bankruptcy and ruin within a year.
*
That drain in part is caused by an excess of imports over exports, which is called a "deficit in overseas payments," of between £500,000,000 and £600,000,000 a year.
Overseas investments have melted away until only £2,000,000,000 worth are left. Some of these are in American securities, some in Canadian property. The great oil holdings in the Middle East are in grave peril. The mother country is already heavily in debt to the dominions and former colonies. Not much more help will come from that source.
The credit of the country is in bad shape. The strength of the pound reflects that credit, and it must be sustained or general collapse will take place. This would affect the world generally.
*
The Socialist government has been in power during most of this decline. Its insistence on putting its experiments first has hastened it. Instead of easing the tax burden, which would permit some improvements in the industrial plant, vast sums were spent for the welfare state.
Socialistic local governments spent lavishly. Silly ventures like the African peanut fiasco cost millions. And the threat and then the reality of nationalization paralyzed the coal, transport and steel industries.
Thus, the Labor government put the cart before the horse, dividing the wealth before new wealth was created. The result was, as Churchill said, to "share the misery."
That is the problem faced by the new Conservative government. It is clear that they will ask the United States to help. And objections to such aid should be less than they were before, because it cannot be charged now that we are helping Socialism. We would be helping the enemies of Socialism.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.