Why Mistakes at Yalta
Now Appear So Stupid
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In their questions on Yalta
the Senators, as well as Acheson in his answers, seem to
consider the Yalta concessions
in Asia as a thing apart.
They are not considered in
their relation to the situation
in Europe when the Yalta conference was held early in
1945. But properly to judge the
price paid by Roosevelt and
Churchill for Russia's promise to fight Japan we must consider all fronts in the war
then drawing to a close.
In doing so it is fair to assume that President Roosevelt
was equipped at the time with
full information about the status of our prospects on all
fronts. For he had with him a
large group of experts. Thus
we are not now taking advantage of hindsight.
*
Acheson gave the usual excuses for our concessions to
Russia in Asia. He says that we
were faced with the prospect
of a fearfully bloody invasion
of the mainland of Japan. He
no doubt would say, if he has
not done so already, that Russia's entry into the war with
Japan would have prevented
the Japanese from using their
Manchurian forces in defending the mainland. That argument was in fact used by
administration spokesmen in
1945.
It is interesting also to note
that in 1945 people close to the
State and War Departments
said that we did not want the
Russians to attack sooner than
Yalta, because the Japanese
could have beaten the Russian
Siberian forces, which were
handicapped by the difficulty of
supplying a war through the
Trans-Siberian Railway. That
weakness is exactly what MacArthur is now pointing out.
When the Yalta conference
was held Japan was already
on its last legs. MacArthur had
taken Manila and our fleet was
attacking Tokyo. Our intelligence, knew that the blockade
had practically reduced Japan
to impotence. Our intelligence, according to what has been
revealed since, knew that Japan was willing and anxious to
end the war. Six or eight
months of attack lay before us
before the invasion of Japan
would have been necessary. It
would have been a fair risk for
Roosevelt to take to refuse any
gifts to Russia in Asia as a
price for entering the war. We
did not need Russia's help
then.
★
More important, however,
was the situation in Europe
and what we gave away at
Yalta and later. We had a great
conquering army there moving
relentlessly eastward. We
could have taken Berlin, Vienna and Prague and could
have held them as long as we
chose. Even had we known
then of the Soviet's cynical intentions we could have held
these great outposts against
its threats.
Instead, we acted with almost fearsome generosity and
ended with a surrender not
only of East Berlin but of
the area around Berlin. We put
a checkrein on Patton and surrendered Czechoslovakia, the
key to East-Central Europe.
And we compromised Austria.
Then we withdrew and demobilized our European army.
It is difficult for the Senators, who must deal with one
place at a time, against the
wily evasion of Acheson, to
get the whole 1945 picture in
perspective. That will be done
later, no doubt, in Senate debate.
At the moment the volume
of the record of the hearings
precludes any such picture's
reaching the public. But it is
well for the public to see the
enormity of the Yalta mistakes in full.
The conclusion must be that
it was not military necessity
that misled Roosevelt, Marshall and Acheson into their
concessions to the Soviet. It
was a bland belief that Communism held no serious threat
to world peace.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.