The Democrats Scurry
to Prepare a Defense
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Radio and television performances of Democratic Senators, Senate floor defenses of President Truman, and the speeches of the President himself all reveal the shock which their party has received in the MacArthur episode.
They realize, apparently, at least the Senators realize, that they are underdogs in this controversy and that their defeat in the court of public opinion, while not mortal, is very serious.
While many a political moon will shine before the next election and throw its light upon quite different circumstances, Democrats are improvising their defense now. And that defense is not very logical.
On the one hand they loudly proclaim their devotion to the supremacy of the civil over the military authority. On the other hand, they quietly begin to talk about Truman's retirement and the nomination of Gen. Eisenhower as a Democratic candidate. Regardless of their devotion to civil authority, their prayer is for any general in a storm. Especially when another general promises to be their strongest oratorical critic.
*
But there are perils that lie before the jubilant Republicans. In this controversy Gen. MacArthur must manage his cause with consummate skill. No one in years has so commanded the attention of the country. Because of that, the danger of saying or doing the wrong thing is very great. Republican leaders must also exercise great care or their present advantage will disappear.
Their advantage is that if Asiatic affairs do not turn out well they can say that their prescriptions should have been followed. Their danger lies in the chance—and it is more than a chance—that the Truman course will result in peace in Korea and a rehabilitated Japan.
In assessing all the political angles in this event, it must be recognized that the chance of Gen. Eisenhower's nomination by the Republicans is less important than it was. He has been ardently supported by Dewey and other Republicans in what might be called the northeastern wing of the party. The rest of the party has notably cooled on Eisenhower as a candidate.
It may even be that MacArthur will be the major spokesman for an Asiatic policy and Eisenhower for a strong European policy, and the opinion of the country, thus divided, will seek to make a choice between them.
*
I have recently had the opportunity to study political sentiment in Texas and other Southern States and it has been clear to me that if Eisenhower should become the Democratic candidate all hope for a conservative North-South coalition will be gone for years.
On the other hand, if Eisenhower should be the Republican candidate such a coalition would be almost automatic for Eisenhower as a Republican would carry Texas and possibly half of the other Southern States. He would then be in a position to build a nationwide conservative party.
These are some of the political implications of the present controversy. In the midst of this conflict the voices that call for unity are hardly audible. Perhaps this is because no one has suggested how there can be a compromise on this political and military issue.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.