REPUBLICAN
DUTY
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A good many Republicans
in Congress are saying among
themselves but not, it should
be noted, on the floors of the
respective houses, that the
steel industry got exactly what
it deserved at the hands of the
President.
They say that the industry,
perhaps under the pressure of
Big Steel, abdicated its independence long ago and made
the present victory of the CIO
inevitable. Why, therefore,
these Congressmen say, should
anyone feel sorry for the steel
Industry?
The precise answer to this
strange argument I shall offer
later in this piece. First, let us
view it in its relations to the
generally irresolute and confused behavior of Congress
since the steel seizure.
With the exception of a very
few Senators like Bricker and
Ferguson, who denounced the
President's seizure of the steel
properties, and Humphrey and
Morse, who opened the faucets of oratory to defend it,
members of either house had
little to say. Senators of the
President's own party, many
of them excellent constitutional lawyers, sat silent.
*
There has been some talk of
an "investigation" of the seizure by a committee of Congress. That is utter nonsense
or, what is more serious,
cowardice. For there is nothing
to investigate. The President
and his lawyers have offered
no legal ground for the seizure
but the vague "inherent" power
of the President and Commander in Chief. There is
nothing further that they
would have to offer. And the
answer to the President's
claim of "inherent" power is
already easily at hand. No investigation is necessary.
It is giving Congress too
much credit to assign all its
reaction to restraint. For restraint is supposed to be a
calculated matter, generally a
choice of the better course. No,
this is not restraint. It is a reflection of irresolution, confusion and political expediency.
★
The complaint of some Republicans that "the steel industry deserves this punishment" is shocking blindness to
the real issue. The alleged guilt
of the steel industry in the
past is not relevant.
The issue is the "punishment" that the President has
given in this instance to the
constitutional system under
which we all must find safety
and liberty.
This is not a conflict between
the President and the steel industry. It is a conflict between
law and arbitrary power. No
President since Lincoln in the
first three months of the Civil
War has arrogated such power
to himself. And Lincoln faced
a vastly more serious emergency.
Republicans should not shirk
their obligation to stand up
for the constitutional rights of
Americans. To do so is to surrender their last best hope of
returning to office. This ought
to be their golden opportunity.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.