The End of the Era
of Bizarre Financing
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

With the submission to
Congress of his annual budget,
his economic report and
the economic review of his
Council of Economic Advisers,
Harry S. Truman completed
what should be called
the bizarre era in government
finance. We shall have to
search well in the history of
other nations and in other
times for anything so unbelievable.

The first budget for which
Truman could be held responsible
was the fiscal year 1947; the
last, for fiscal 1953. His present
estimates for fiscal 1954 are
purely academic, for they will
be ignored by the new regime.

We can now judge him on
the basis of the seven years
from fiscal 1947 to 1953 inclusive.
And the best way to judge him
as a fiscal manager and prophet
is by the disparity between his
estimates and the reality of the
year's end.

His estimates on the spending
side were generally much better
than on the receipts side. On
expenditures his average percentage
of inaccuracy was about 9. In three
years he spent more than his estimates
and in four years he spent less. To
some people this will have a favorable
appearance. That is exactly how
Truman intended to have it appear.
But the facts are not so favorable.

On the other hand, had a habit
of fooling the people with a
thrifty-looking budget in January,
after which he promoted and permitted
hefty increases by Congress.

It is hard to reconcile Truman's
bad estimates of receipts with mere
guile or with simple ignorance. It
looks much more like plain misrepresentation.
He was always a spender and for that
reason he wanted to keep taxes high
and to raise them wherever possible.
Hence, he would estimate prospective
receipts much lower than the facts warranted.

Moreover, he was an arch inflationist,
and whenever inflation is going on, tax
receipts mount in proportion more rapidly
than personal and corporate incomes. That
is because, as incomes move up, they strike
higher tax brackets.

It must be noted also that during this
seven-year financial debauch Truman has
had what no President before him enjoyed—a
Council of (so-called) Economic Advisers.
The angry resignation of Dr. Nourse some
years ago should have moved Congress to
abolish the council. But it was permitted
to live. Now it reveals violent disagreement
among its members. It has never had the
respect of Congress or of the reputable
economists of the country. It should either
be abolished or it should be reorganized with
members who can command public respect.

Meanwhile, the figures for the last fiscal
year, 1953, for which Truman will have any
responsibility are as follows: In January,
1952, he estimated expenditures at $85,400,000,000.
In August he revised that figure to $79,000,000,000.
In the present month of January he has
reduced that to $74,000,000,000. No one can
tell what the figure will be when the year is
completed. However, this record should
indicate the abundant material with which an
economy-minded Congress and administration
will be able to work.

On the receipts side, Truman's estimates
averaged 17½% wrong. One year, 1947, was
37% too low, and in another, 1951, he was
29% too low.

This record is in strong contrast with that
of Roosevelt. Truman's predecessor almost
always spent much more than his estimates and
his receipts were almost always less than his
estimates. In the six nonwar years, fiscal
1935-40 inclusive, Roosevelt spent 20% more
than his estimates, but on receipts he was only
7% wrong. It is probable that Secretary Morgenthau
had something to do with this. For, despite
some faults, Morgenthau had able Undersecretaries
and good Budget Directors. Roosevelt,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.