EYEWASH
ANALYSIS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
After the remaining primaries are over and June rests her soft hands over us all, and Gen. Eisenhower comes back and rival supporters will be laying claims, the real fellows will make the Republican decision.
Those people will be the uninstructed and uncommitted delegates and also those who, while selected by conventions, have instructions they can disregard soon after the balloting starts. Those people will be men and women, even as you and I, with both a measurable sense of duty and a keen desire to make a successful choice.
Let us consider what the bearing of their thinking may be in its relation to the Eisenhower candidacy. For that is something about which those delegates must think long and earnestly. The primaries will have given them, to use an Eisenhower expression, no clear call.
☆
Despite the efforts of both Taft and Eisenhower people to glean beneficial data from the New Jersey primary result, the verdict of the cold, impartial reporter must be that it went as might have been expected. Primaries almost always go according to the specifications of the organization, or the machine, if you will. Only once in a blue moon can a superman arouse that sluggish species of citizenry who flatter themselves with the term "independent" to vote in large numbers and rebuke the machine. The almost invariable result is a light vote, mustered by the faithful lieutenants of the organization, which approves, a judgment decreed by the party's governing authorities. So it was in New Hampshire and Illinois.
☆
So it was in New Jersey. Gov. Driscoll is no novice in practical politics. He has been elected and re-elected Governor in a State where organization is important. He has whatever Republican patronage there is, which is considerable. There was no reason why Driscoll's choice should not prevail. Indeed, it would have been amazing if anything else had happened.
The pro-Taft leaders were a scattering of people like ex-Sen. Hawkes and Democratic ex-Gov. Edison. Such scattered efforts can almost never prevail against an organization with the Governor at its head. Ohio will also run true to form. It will veer to Taft. And in Oregon the internationalist sentiment, together with the support of Oregon's Governor, will be decisively against Taft. And so, after all the primary shooting is over, the decisive delegates will sit themselves down to their job.
☆
The thinking of those delegates should take two lines. First, they should, as men and women of conscience, consider their duty to find out which candidate they believe to be most sound in his thinking and thus best for the American republic. Second, and equally important, is their duty to their party. They must select for their party the candidate they think will win the election.
Please note that I am referring here to the duty and obligation of delegates, not to the duty and obligation of Gen. Eisenhower. There is a difference.
The general apparently believes that he has no duty to be explicit about his views before the convention. He believes that such a confession of faith should come after the nomination.
☆
His managers, I surmise, have reached the very practical, not to say Machiavellian, decision that there is a better chance of nominating their man if they keep him quiet until the convention. I have no quarrel with that. These men are practical politicians fighting against the practical Taft politicians, and their conscience is their own to keep. But a delegate may well feel on both the grounds suggested above that he must have something more definite from Gen. Eisenhower than he has promised. And if enough delegates make that demand the general had best think twice before refusing to tell where he stands on a lot of things.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.