GEN. EISENHOWER
AND FOREIGN AID
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The friends of Gen. Eisenhower will do well to advise their man not to enter the quarrel over the reduction in foreign aid funds. For on this subject it is clear that a majority in Congress not only has a deep and positive intention to cut but has some very good reasons to justify its action. Gen. Eisenhower has said that a cut of more than $1,000,000,000 will be bad. He ought to let the case stand there without further argument. The Truman administration has not only admitted the doubtful necessity of all the money asked for, but by its behavior has permitted the issue of alleged national security to get hopelessly entangled in politics.
W. Averell Harriman is director of the Mutual Security Agency. He is also an active candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination. He should not be both if he expects bipartisan support for Mutual Security funds.
*
He is not a calm, detached candidate like Eisenhower, whose actions support the idea that a nomination should come from all sorts of people. Instead, he is presenting himself as a candidate of only two of the many groups associated with the Democratic Party—the city bosses and politicians and the labor leaders. His candidacy could never have been born except for the fact that the city machines in New York State needed a handy person to act as a favorite son. Thus they could hold their delegation together until the time later on, perhaps in the convention itself, when they might sack their favorite son and land on the front seat of a winning bandwagon.
A good illustration of Harriman’s frantic pursuit of the favor of labor leaders was shown last week during his visit to St. Louis. According to press accounts, he spent a very busy day indeed running all over town visiting union offices and headquarters. His attention was liberally bestowed upon various branches of unionism. There was a time when candidates for the Presidency remained in a state of more-or-less dignified receptivity. They received and pleasantly visited with representatives of all interests, including labor. Now, apparently, the candidate runs about ringing all doorbells, especially those attached to the offices of union locals.
*
If Harriman deeply feels that Mutual Security should have the support of all patriotic Americans and if he takes his Presidential candidacy seriously, he should resign as MSA director. Moreover, the Harriman Mutual Security Agency has issued a 16-page booklet which raises serious questions. This book is called “A Report to You,” and suggests the handiwork of hack government publicity agents intent not on giving a concise, factual account to the American public but on frightening, inspiring or otherwise stirring Americans to give and give without much thought of relative values or specific results.
*
The most striking thing about this whole drive for “untouchable” estimates for foreign aid is its failure to explain why this exact amount should be appropriated here and now, while vast amounts remain unspent. The fact is that there is now almost as much appropriated for foreign aid and remaining unspent as all that we have spent to date. The amount appropriated and unspent on March 31 was about $15,000,000,000. Therefore, it does not make sense to appropriate all the $7,000,000,000 now demanded. No emergency is in sight to justify such haste, unless, as some feel, the emergency is connected with domestic politics.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.