WILLKIE AND
ROOSEVELT
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
On the same day, April 30,
there were released two important historical documents.
The one, a book, "Wendell
Willkie," by Mary Earhart Dillon, is an able account of
Willkie's meteoric political career.
It is based on a good
many personal interviews with
people who knew Willkie and
were familiar with the events
with which he was associated.
Mrs. Dillon is a good reporter.
She offers a fair and judicious
estimate of Willkie's mistakes
as well as his virtues.
The other author also is a
good and honest reporter. He
is Samuel I. Rosenman, for 17
years Roosevelt's friend, adviser and speech collaborator.
His article, "What Makes a
President?" published in the
May Ladies' Home Journal, is
part of a book yet to come.
*
The two sources should be
read together to gain an understanding of a startling revelation offered by Rosenman.
For while Mrs. Dillon does not
apparently know the specific
facts of this incident, she provides a setting into which the
Rosenman account fits perfectly.
Rosenman says that in June,
1944, which it will be recalled
was an election year, F. D. R.
revealed to him a plan to enlist Willkie in an effort to
build up a new political party.
Rosenman was sent to make
the proposition to Willkie.
While Willkie did not commit
himself to Rosenman, the idea,
according to Rosenman,
"meshed exactly with his own
thinking."
Then Roosevelt secretly
wrote a letter to Willkie proposing a secret meeting. Willkie drafted an answer which
he never sent, expressing sympathy with the idea but adding that it had better be left
until after the election.
*
But Roosevelt, while he did
not tell Rosenman about the
letter, apparently slipped the
information to somebody else.
Thus it got into the press. But
later, at a press conference,
Roosevelt flatly denied it.
Then, no doubt feeling embarrassed, he wrote to Willkie
again making the preposterous
statement that when he denied it he had forgotten it. He
then added that maybe he had
told it to somebody else.
Aside from this revealing
mass of deception and prevarication, the fact comes through
clearly that both Willkie and
Roosevelt were willing to
wreck the political parties
which had honored them with
nominations and form a new
one for certain vague, undefined, "liberal" objectives.
My own opinion is that
Roosevelt was engaged in a
cat-and-mouse game with Willkie.
If he could in that way
drive a deep fissure into the
Republican Party, enlisting
Willkie in such an enterprise,
his own success in 1944 and
perhaps in years to come
would be secure. Ultimately,
Willkie would have found, as
did nearly everybody else, that
when it suited the Roosevelt
convenience he, too, would be
scuttled.
*
The willingness of Willkie to
entertain such a proposal is
easy to understand on the
background of Mrs. Dillon's
book. After his defeat in the
Wisconsin primary in the
spring of 1944, he was an embittered, almost desperate man.
He could never realize that he
had lost the support of Republican leaders because he had
neglected, criticized, and occasionally abused them. His view
of it was that they were too
dumb, benighted and selfish to
understand his high ideals. He
said that Dewey had no principles and could not be elected.
And so he died after doing
what he could to make Republican success impossible.
The story now told by Rosenman makes this all clear beyond a doubt.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.