• THE DOGGED
FINNS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A great many Americans,
nauseated by the selfishness,
double dealing and demagog-
uery in our political conventions, are turning their eyes to
the refreshing Olympic Games
in Finland. They might well
look beyond the sports to the
great qualities of the nation
which is host to the Games.
*
What has been happening to
Finland during the past eight
years is an excellent example
of one of the monumental fallacies that arose during the
second world war—the fallacy
of what was called "reparations in kind." The aftermath
of the first world war revealed in a dramatic way the
earlier fallacy of reparations
in money.
A vast bill was handed to
Germany after that war. It
was never paid. Ultimately it
was shown that when victors
try to exact a monetary fine
from a defeated enemy they
generally end up by paying it
themselves. And so the statesmen of the second world war
decided that reparations in the
new so-called peace should be
in goods. To that was added
the Soviet concept of reparations in manpower, which resulted in slave labor.
We all know what happened
in Germany. Great quantities
of industrial and railway equipment were crudely torn up
and moved to Russia. The net
result was that Germany thereupon became unable to support itself, to say nothing of
paying damages to the victors.
Russia probably got little
benefit from the loot because
its technical skill was unequal
to the task of putting the stuff
together. Ultimately, that international do-gooder sometimes called "Uncle Sap" had
to pay for replacing most of
the equipment.
★
In the case of Finland, reparations in goods inflicted an
almost intolerable injustice.
The two-phase war against
Russian aggression which began in 1939 and finally ended
in 1944 brought immeasurable
disaster. Finland lost about
one-eighth of its territory and
immense casualties in dead
and wounded. The Soviet,
with the approval of her allies, imposed a $300,000,000 reparations obligation upon Finland.
The treaty provided that
payment should be made in
goods instead of money, at the
rate of $50,000,000 a year. The
shocking injustice of this treaty was that the reparations
goods to be delivered were to
be priced in terms of American gold dollar prices of 1938.
The march of inflation resulted in there being exacted
an amount of goods vastly
greater than was originally
contemplated. A part of the
goods required was to be in
products for which Finland
had neither the producing
equipment nor the necessary
raw materials. Hence, a great
burden of importing materials
was imposed.
The hard terms were modified in only two ways. An allowance of from 10 to 15% was
made to take account of inflation. But this, as any American knows, was inadequate.
For example, Finland was required to deliver a number of
wooden schooners, for which a
price of $15,000 was fixed. Actually, because of inflation the
cost rose to $180,000. It has
been estimated that, measured
in goods, Finland has had to
pay two and a half times what
the original treaty called for.
*
The conqueror allowed only
one further concession. The
six-year period was lengthened
to eight. That means that the
ordeal will be completed this
year. But it will be a long journey back along the economic
road to the state of prosperity
enjoyed by Finland in 1939.
Americans, I hope, have not
forgotten the thrill of admiration that they experienced
when, in 1933, after all the other European nations indebted
to us had defaulted, Finland
not only continued to pay her
installments but declined to
negotiate a reduction in her
debt.
We also know that under
pressure from Russia Finland
was compelled to refuse Marshall aid, although it later accepted a loan. We can now
rejoice once more, as the Olympic Games are going on, that
somewhere in this world the
honest payment of national obligations, hard work and frugal economy are the major
characteristics of a nation.
*
The special-interest groups
here that are clamoring at the
political parties for handouts
and privileges might well be
reminded to pause for a moment and look at Finland. That
small but distinguished nation
is not ashamed of her devotion
to the ancient virtues.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.