Republicans who look beyond the current struggle for the Presidential nomination to the election should face a stern reality. The retirement of President Truman has made their task of capturing the White House measurably more difficult. In the first place, it takes away the outward symbol, the human embodiment of the policies which Republicans oppose. Truman is concrete. Trumanism is abstract. And millions of voters move in a concrete, not an abstract world. Next, it deflates the issue of personal corruption. A new Democratic candidate can with hand on heart pledge himself to rid the administration of rascals, chiselers and grafters. He can make that pledge just as ardently as can a Republican candidate. Guilt, he will say, is personal. It does not characterize a party. That is how even as honest and eminent a Republican as Charles Evans Hughes disposed of the Harding scandals when Coolidge was running in 1924. It worked. Moreover, it will be clear to all that a new Democrat will not continue the present palace guard in office. He may keep some members of the Cabinet. But the little group of Presidential cronies will have to find employment elsewhere. For the new President will have his own cronies to surround him, and they, for the moment at least, will be without sin. And so all the labor and plety and wit and eloquence spent by Republicans in exploiting the personal rascalities of the Truman regime will, so far as political advantage is concerned, be wasted. The opposition will have served the cause of morality and country, but their party will get no new votes; and votes are what the Republican Party has lacked these many years. Truman's withdrawal also denies the Republican Party any windfall advantage of a genuine southern revolt. As long as Truman was the living embodiment of anti-States' rights policies that southern Democrats detested, it was certain that Truman could not win. But now that symbol is gone. The politicians who will dominate the Democratic convention, and that includes all the candidates, will probably arrange sufficient double talk in the platform to prevent a serious southern revolt. Some of the more enlightened leaders like Byrd, Byrnes and Russell will look beyond the candidate to the platform, but others will now waver about a real secession. A colorless candidate like Stevenson might provide a perfect screen for a restoration of harmony, and a token of harmony might be the nomination of a Southerner for Vice-President. For these and other reasons the Truman retirement is not tidings of great joy to Republicans. Their task will be very much harder. They will have to find not only unity but a firm and attractive principle. That combination is never easy to get.