Where Does Truman Get
Those 'Inherent Powers'?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is becoming more and
more clear that neither President Truman nor his lawyers
know yet how they are to justify the seizure of the steel
industry. Apparently the President moved pell-mell, with
little or no advice in this
great decision, just as he did
when he sent ground troops
into Korea or when he wrote
the numerous indiscreet letters we have heard about.
This steel business reveals
the actions of a man of small
stature, with an inflated ego,
a stubborn disposition and an
abiding respect for political obligations. Such men create for
themselves contempt for the
exact and learned reasoning
of experts. When in positions
of great power they act first
and expect their lawyers, like
mere clerks, to find justification for their actions.
In this case the matter was
made worse by the fact that
there was no real Attorney
General. McGrath was gone
and McGranery was new and
unconfirmed. The lawyers who
have appeared so far, in the
two instances where steel
companies have got into court,
seem to be completely unprepared.
*
These government lawyers
in the first case were greatly
helped by the attitude of Judge
Holtzoff. The judge himself
side-stepped—rather awkwardly, it must be said—the real
issues. He refused to consider
the legal merits of the seizure
but took refuge behind the assertion that he had no power
to issue a restraining order
against Secretary Sawyer since
that in effect would be to restrain the President of the
United States. That is absurd,
since if logically applied it
would put every one of the
millions responsible to the
President above and beyond
law and the courts. It is also
grossly inconsistent for Judge
Holtzoff to make such a decision, because within the month
he acted as one of three Federal judges in the test of the
Lobbying Act and barred Atty.
Gen. McGrath from enforcing
it. The Secretary of Commerce
and the Attorney General are
equally close to the President.
What applies to one should
apply to the other.
In the latter case, before
District Judge Pine, the industry lawyers sought a hearing
on the legal and constitutional aspects of the seizure. Government lawyers claimed that
they needed more time to prepare. They demanded 60 days.
One lawyer made the astonishing statement that the case
"was suddenly dropped in our
laps," and that they needed
time to prepare.
*
The day before, in Judge
Holtzoff's court, this same
lawyer projected an opinion
which sharply reacted against
him. He said: "I think in the
last analysis it is fair to say
that the magnitude of the
emergency itself is sufficient to
create the power to seize under these circumstances."
This was such absurd but
dangerous law that the judge
was moved to reply that
"Chief Justice Hughes said in
one of his opinions that emergencies do not create power."
The Chief Justice said this
in the famous Schechter case:
"Extraordinary conditions do
not create or enlarge constitutional power."
In the same case Justice Cardozo said that there was "no
grant to the Executive of any
roving commission to inquire
into evils, and then upon discovering them, to do anything he pleases." Such power,
he declared, would be "unconfined and vagrant."
Judge Holtzoff, in admonishing the government lawyer,
made it clear that in denying
an injunction he was not approving the seizure. He said:
"I think that whatever decision I reach I shall not adopt
the view that there is anyone
in this government whose
power is unlimited."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.