The Need for Recalling
Lessons of Depression
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
A very wise economist suggested recently that we might well get another overextension and consequent depression because fewer and fewer business affairs are being handled by people old enough to remember what happened in the 1920s.
This was not meant to be a criticism of youth. It was merely a reminder of the sound principle that if people’s memories were good enough and they could live long enough many of the world’s ills might be avoided.
Time is flowing by us. This is the 19th anniversary of the week that the banks were closed. We passed the 22nd anniversary of the collapse of the stock market last fall. Not many of the people who were running things in the 1921 depression are around now. Most presidents and even chairmen of corporations now were watching far from the seats of power and decision when the approaches to the great depression were being prepared and the warning signals began to appear.
★
It can be assumed that people now in their 30s or 40s know in a general way what went on in the late 1920s. They have read about or have been told of the early signs of collapse—signs that were ignored by so many at that time. They have their charts and statistics of those days to inform them. Indeed, many of the old warning signals were repeated months ago.
But even with that knowledge, they may not be forewarned. And the defenses that we now have against a decline are quite different.
It will be well, however, for all of us to remember that the belief was widely held in the earlier 1920s that panics were obsolete affairs. That belief was exploited after the passage of the Federal Reserve Act in the first Wilson administration. Wilson himself, in the campaign of 1916, was hailed as the man who had abolished depressions. Even the upset in 1921 failed to shake this idea. We were told, also, that America had grown up, that a new set of values had come into being and that all lessons of the past were no longer suitable.
★
In fact, the pabulum now issued by the President’s economic advisers suggests that same nonsense. We have, they would have us believe, reached a new era of illimitable expansion. And government controls will save us from harm.
It is true that we do have a new set of underpinnings and braces today which were not present in 1929. We support a large part of the credit structure by means of mortgage insurance, an RFC with money to lend, government loans to industry for defense, floors under agricultural prices and government purchases of commodities. Banks have deposit insurance. All these and the Federal Reserve System, too.
Most of these assurances, however, are built on the assumption of a sound government, for that is what must provide all these supports. We assume that a termination of the defense program will be gradual enough to enable business to make readjustments.
But it may not terminate at all, but reach a plateau like that of Europe before World War I. But if we gratuitously assume these possibilities we are still risking a great deal.
It is best to believe that depressions can come and, while one may not be near, it can catch us as it did before.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.