Walter Lippmann, in a comment on the
Nixon affair, describes his own disturbed
state of mind after witnessing Sen. Nixon's
appeal to the American people. He concludes
that such a speech was "simply mob law."
NOW in these days, when so many subjects
need to be discussed, I greatly regret that
it seems necessary to pause and make a
comment on that comment. My regret is the
greater because I don't believe in contro-
versies among commentators.
But when a writer like Mr. Lippmann has
commanded the interest of so many people
for so many years, his opinions become al-
most a matter of public policy. Too many
breakfast conversations are made by his
views to justify taking him lightly. And for
that reason too much harm can result from
his fallacies to justify silence at this time.
Now let us consider Mr. Lippmann's char-
acterization of the Nixon speech as "mob
law."
★
What in the name of common sense was
the attack upon Nixon but a species of mob
violence? Without any knowledge of the de-
tails of the Nixon fund Stevenson's friend,
Stephen A. Mitchell, demanded the with-
drawal of Nixon from the ticket, Jack Kroll
of the pro-Stevenson CIO contemptuously
screamed "kept man." Sen. Sparkman con-
tributed his bit of street-corner demagoguery.
Stevenson publicly withheld judgment, but
privately spoke ominously of further dis-
closures. Headlines everywhere screamed
"secret fund."
When such a hue and cry ascends, what
would Mr. Lippmann ask a man to do?
Spend weeks in a quiet grand jury inquisi-
tion? That would have been impossible in
any event because nobody charged a crime.
And what was the "mob" implied in the
Lippmann sneer? It was as great a represen-
tation of the American people as ever wit-
nessed or heard a broadcast. Were these
thousands who wired or wrote their confi-
dence in Nixon after the broadcast "mob-
sters"? They were in large part, the same
people who have been the financial support
of Mr. Lippmann all these years. They are
the American public—perhaps the "gullible
public," as Stevenson calls them—but the
ultimate source of sovereignty.
★
But this is only one of the Lippmann of-
fenses against reason, accuracy and fair play
in the last few months. Another example
was his assertion that Sen. Taft's support
came from the political "underworld." When
Mr. Lippmann wrote that, he was a most
ardent Eisenhower supporter. Now he is
contemptuous of Eisenhower because the
General will not permit Lippmann to select
Eisenhower's supporters.
I don't know how carefully Mr. Lippmann
has gone into Eisenhower's views. I have
spent perhaps less than four hours with the
General. But after asking questions and lis-
tening to him talk, I can say that well before
the General met with Taft he had committed
himself even more conservatively than has
Taft.
The conclusion is inescapable that Walter
Lippmann, like Sen. Wayne Morse, has such
an aversion to Taft that he would rather
have the man he supported for the nomi-
nation lose the election than grant him the
right to use his own judgment in accepting
support.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.