The Figures Look Good,
but Only Votes Count
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
An examination of the nationwide figures on registration shows a situation highly favorable to Gen. Eisenhower. Registration is not only at a record high, but it is highest in places where the General is likely to get the most votes. That is clear in these final days before election. It is all, that is clear.
For lest some Eisenhower supporter who reads this should feel the soft, warm glow of complacent hope, I want to add a word of warning. Those Ike registrants have not voted yet. And before they vote they cannot be counted. They cannot even be anticipated.
For the vote on election days in our free system is all that matters. All the oratory, the piety and wit, the banners, the buttons and the bands, the sounds on the radio, the shows on television, the endorsements, the charges and the answers cannot avail if the votes on election day fail to appear. All these excepting television we had with Willkie and Dewey. But they proved to be wasted money, emotion and labor.
The registration figures do look good for Eisenhower. Most of the increases are far beyond the rises to be expected from a growth in population. The American Heritage Foundation, which has done so much to get out the registrations, offers some interesting figures. California is up almost a million over 1948. New Jersey is up 13%. Dade County, Fla. (Miami), is up more than 100,000. Louisiana is up 10%. Pennsylvania is up 20%; Indiana, 21½%.
In New York State the increases are very heavy in Republican strongholds. Binghamton, for example, has a sensational increase, while Democratic Albany is down. The famous "southern tier" counties, always Republican bulwarks, are up. In New York City the greatest increase, 140,000, is in Republican Queens. Republican cities in Westchester County are up. The city of Syracuse has a negligible rise, but there is a large increase in the suburban area. Rochester, Detroit and Cleveland show the same condition.
The potential vote exists to elect Eisenhower by a landslide. But the potential must become a realized fact. And that will depend upon those who care enough to labor at the drudgery of door-to-door exhortation, of endless telephone calls and of personal letter writing. It cannot be left to printed exhortations or radio and TV appeals, helpful though they may be.
Eisenhower cannot do it all. The candidate is almost never a major factor in winning an election. Elections are won by organization.
I would add another warning. Do not place great faith in polls. It is true that generally the polls over the country look favorable to Ike. But remember always that polls register the preferences of potential voters, not of those who finally vote. And since we cannot expect more than, say, 65% of the eligibles to turn out on election day a sampling of the 100% cannot tell us what the much smaller number of real voters will do.
Finally, and this is a plus for Eisenhower, remember that the gentlemen of the press, the reporters, editorialists and columnists are bending so far backward this year that some are almost breaking in two. The dreadful embarrassment of 1948 is a living force in the psyche of all of us. We were so wrong then! And now we are so scared that we hate to believe our own figures.
So the citizen himself must take over and get out the vote. Upon him rests the fate of Eisenhower and, as many believe, the fate of the nation, too.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.