INTERNATIONAL FAT BOY
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It has been a favorite saying of Elder Statesman Bernard Baruch that he always regrets to see the United States treated abroad as "an international fat boy."
His meaning is clear. Our country seems to be regarded as a soft touch by nations who should be most in need of our help. Too often the answer to our generosity is debt repudiation, default and blackmail.
An excellent example of this attitude cropped up recently in the U.N. General Assembly's Economic and Financial Committee. A proposal was promoted by Bolivia and Iran which not only recommended the nationalization of resources in all countries but would seek to deny to U.N. member states the right to protest the seizure of properties of their citizens abroad.
In the course of the discussion of the Bolivia-Iran proposal, the United States brought up amendments which were intended to remove emphasis on nationalization and to remind states of their duty to honor their obligations to respect the investments and property of foreigners.
★
Our proposal was rejected by a vote of 27 to 15. A whole list of countries which, under the Monroe Doctrine, we are pledged to protect with the lives of our men and our money went along on this vote, with Poland, Ukraine and the Soviet Union.
In a recent speech in Washington Max Ball asserted that in all but six of the oil-producing countries American companies faced changes in oil contracts. Some countries let foreign investors in on very friendly terms and then, after substantial property interests are involved, the squeeze begins. It is a clear case of extortion.
After one country gets away with this sort of thing, others follow suit, largely for domestic political reasons.
And now during the cold war, when Americans get caught in these squeezes and appeal to our government, they meet the reluctance of our government to do anything to offend the extortioner because we need all our friends in the great play against Russia.
★
Thus, our Point 4 program, which reeks of idealism, hardly gets started before Point 1 comes up. And Point 1 should be the duty of our country to protect the rights of our own citizens.
There is every reason to expect that the new Secretary of State will develop a firmer or at least a clearer policy toward these violations of American rights. John Foster Dulles is no novice in this field. His training goes back to his early life with his grandfather, John W. Foster, who was Secretary of State in 1893. The Secretary-designate has been an international lawyer for many years and fully understands the point of view of business.
We shall probably never revert to old-fashioned "dollar diplomacy." But we shall certainly see a change from the loose policies of the last few years.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.