THE MAN IN
THE MIDDLE
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

I believe that in what follows I am expressing sentiments which are shared by a good many Americans. Certainly, I am expressing my own convictions.

In the present furious controversy in many walks of life over the McCarthy-Veide-Jenner investigations, I am unwilling to accept either extreme.

A person thus located, as it were, in the middle is moved not only by the arguments with which he agrees, but by those with which he does not agree. The former attract; the latter repel.

The latter are what chiefly concern us here.

It seems to me that many opponents of what is called McCarthyism are getting into such an emotional state that, although they are undoubtedly loyal Americans, they are aligning themselves with and giving aid to thoroughly bad people and influences.

*

There are good journalists who are anti-Communist, here and in England, who are writing stuff about McCarthy that almost exactly parallels what is appearing in the Daily Worker.

Public men, including educators in high places, are saying things in speeches that cannot help but give aid and comfort to thoroughly guilty scoundrels who have used public office and their positions in education to impair the integrity and undermine the safety of the nation.

In short, many people are beginning to support McCarthy because of the enemies he has made.

I am not now referring to the crackpots whose violent letters pro and anti-McCarthy come every day to the desk of every journalist who gets his name in print. These people as yet represent no important American influence, although if this thing goes on they certainly will.

I am referring to otherwise responsible people who perhaps because of surcharged emotions are taking positions which are a direct encouragement to the reckless, the irresponsible and the guilty.

To be specific, I am in receipt of a statement got out by the faculty of a well-known graduate school. It makes the points that there is absolutely no need to look for Communists and pro-Communists in our educational institutions and that those who invoke the protection of the Fifth Amendment should lose no status as teachers.

The first of these points has been amply disproved. The second is to say that a person who says that to answer a simple question will incriminate him is a satisfactory person to teach the youth of the nation.

*

The professors who authorized that statement and others who sound off to the same tune either do not know what is going on in this country or are encumbered by their own muddy theory. They are also confessing that they are grossly unaware of the widespread public distrust in education caused by indubitable evidences of corrupt teaching.

It is these deluded people who are driving the man in the middle into a defense of Congressional investigations. If that man in the middle must choose between McCarthy and the evils that McCarthy has been attacking, he is going to choose McCarthy.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.