EISENHOWER AND TAFT
AND THE CABINET
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Despite the inclination of people to say they follow the middle of the road, there are few people who follow that ideological middle line. Sooner or later, they reveal a basic disposition to go right or left.

Gen. Eisenhower in his campaign described himself as one who preferred the middle of the road, and one of his opponents’ few departures from good taste was his rejoinder about “the middle of the gutter.”

But to talk with Eisenhower is to realize that he is definitely a conservative, and certainly his first five Cabinet choices show that. They are so positively conservative that they must have been a severe shock to some of the early Eisenhower boosters. But to the citizenry at large, this choice of a positive course must have been a most exciting experience. Stimulating, too, is the revelation of a tremendous capacity for quick and decisive action by the President-elect.

But as is always the case, Washington, that source of rumors and misinformation, has emitted some reports designed to discolor the atmosphere. One of these is that the first five appointments displeased Taft—in fact, that the General rebuffed the Senator in making the appointments.

This effort to create friction between the two men who will be foremost in this administration deserves a correction here and now. I have attempted to get the facts, and here are the results of my efforts. It is obvious at the outset that when two strong men deal with each other in a cooperative task, neither attempts to dictate all the moves. It is Eisenhower’s responsibility to choose his Cabinet. Taft respects that responsibility.

What passed between them I do not profess to know, for I kneel at no keyholes. But it can be assumed that Eisen-

hower asked for opinions about a good many people. About the only specific recommendation that Taft made was Byrd for the Treasury. Byrd declared himself out.

So Eisenhower selected as close and loyal a friend as Taft has in Ohio, George Humphrey. It doesn’t matter whether Winken, Blinken or Nod actually spoke Humphrey’s name to Eisenhower. What does matter is that the President-elect selected a person who is a friend and supporter of the Senator.

I can say from long-standing knowledge that Dulles is no more a Dewey man than a Taft man. He is a Dulles man, and now he is an Eisenhower man. Taft is pleased, and presumably Dewey is pleased, and so that is that.

Despite the apparent lack of appreciation among commentators of the importance of the Interior Department, those who know the facts I saw and visited with McKay place it as fourth in the scale. I saw it four weeks after the Chicago convention, when the bitterness over the Taft-Eisenhower contest was still great. This quiet, able, conservative Governor of Oregon spoke of Taft in the highest terms. His State was for Eisenhower, and as a delegate he voted for him.

But even then, when nobody could conceive of his being called to the Cabinet, it was clear that Taft could have no problems in dealing with him. The McKay suggestion undoubtedly came from Ralph Cake of Oregon, and it was an inspired idea.

The fact is that this Cabinet is fulfilling a pattern. Not only is it representative of all sections of the Republican Party, but it is more conservative than even Taft would have selected.

But for those who may have doubts, let it be said that Taft is very pleased with it.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.