EXPERIENCE
SPEAKS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Never before has the President-elect been compelled to
decide on so many important
appointments in so short a
time.
When Harry S. Truman succeeded to the office in 1945 he
kept the Cabinet incumbents
for the moment but over a
period of some months replaced them, one by one.
When he was elected in 1948
he made few changes.
Back in 1932, when we had
our last clean sweep, Roosevelt had four months instead
of the 10 weeks now allowed Eisenhower.
But Roosevelt's four months hardly sufficed. Final decisions and acceptances on most
of the Cabinet posts were not
concluded until the last three
weeks before inauguration. I
can well remember the agony
that prevailed at that time, for
it was my onerous job to act as
negotiator between the President-elect and most of the
prospects.
Cordell Hull, with his customary deliberation, delayed
his acceptance until several
conditions had been complied
with. Among these was his
insistence that an undersecretary be appointed who could
take over the job of entertaining and dining out, as well as
the administrative details.
That was happily settled by
the selection of William Phillips of Massachusetts, a veteran diplomatic officer.
Sen. Carter Glass declined
the Treasury post, largely because he could not be assured
of the soundness of Roosevelt's fiscal ideas. Experience
proved the wisdom of that
hard decision of Glass. In declining the appointment, Glass
recommended Swager Sherley
of Louisville. But Sherley was
too conservative for F. D. R.
and the idea was rejected. Instead, Roosevelt offered the
job of Director of the Budget
to Sherley. But that canny
gentleman who was a real believer in economy, declined,
and Lewis Douglas was selected. Douglas fled after a year
of anguish.
★
Finally, about 10 days before the inauguration, at a late
hour in the evening, in Roosevelt's New York City house,
the decision was made to offer the Treasury job to Will
Woodin. I was delegated at
once—for it was always important to get action before
Roosevelt changed his mind—
to get Woodin's acceptance.
Forthwith I secured consent
from a very sleepy and astonished man. Woodin also had a
hard time in his short service
in office.
The selection of a Secretary
of the Interior took a long
time. This job was properly
regarded as the most critical
of all next to that of the Secretary of State. It involves
enormous responsibilities.
Two administrations, Taft's
and Harding's, were plagued
by troubles in that office.
Roosevelt's first choice was
Sen. Hiram Johnson of California. Johnson declined. Then
Roosevelt offered the job to
Sen. Bronson Cutting of New
Mexico. I was sent to see Cutting and to talk with him for
Roosevelt. But that able but
unusual man had deep doubts,
which ended in a declination.
One fear that he had was that
of the burden on his health.
The other was doubt about
Roosevelt himself. Later, Cutting became a bitter critic of
the President.
Finally, with the inauguration just ahead, Roosevelt
called Hiram Johnson again,
and when the Californian said
a positive "no," Roosevelt in
desperation asked him to
name somebody, anybody. He
suggested Harold Ickes, and
the job was filled. That is not
the story that Ickes used to
tell, but it is true.
To complete the confusion,
Roosevelt's choice for Attorney General, Sen. Thomas
Walsh, died on March 2.
Homer Cummings was hastily
drafted instead.
I recite these events to
show that a lot of things must
happen before a suitable Cabinet can be selected. First, the
President-elect must do a lot
of thinking and get a lot of
advice. Next, he must resist a
thousand pressures. Next, he
must get good people to accept
by overcoming their objections and doubts about serving. Finally, he must be certain that the people selected
will work together.
Eisenhower has only a short
time to make these choices.
He has a party on his hands
that has been out of power
for years and is desperately
hungry for offices.
His own personal knowledge
of the political figures and
problems involved is not
great. There are lame ducks
all over the lot, including ex-
Governors and ex-Senators galore. There are also Senators
who will be "ex" in January.
On the wisdom of these
choices will depend the success of the new administration. The General will find
that running for office is only
the front step of the house
of trouble.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.