Today—March 10—is another momentous anniversary. For on this day 20 years ago Franklin D. Roosevelt struck a mighty blow for economy. There will be clearing of throats and raising of eyebrows among Republicans who read this, but I can assure them that it is true and that the Roosevelt who did so was perfectly sincere. Moreover, this act gave the country such a thrill of joy that on the next Monday, people stood in line in the nation’s banks, putting back the money they had withdrawn days and weeks before. There is a present-day moral to this story which 1953 Republicans might well ponder. I shall come to that presently. It is only being fair to Roosevelt to say that in those days, and before that in his campaign for the Presidency and in his terms as Governor of New York, he was a sincere believer in economy. The virus of tax-spend-elect had not yet entered his system. As an evidence of his sincerity, he had appointed as Director of the Budget a conservative, hard-shelled gentleman of Scottish descent, Lewis W. Douglas, who had for six years been a Congressman from Arizona. Douglas was not only a zealous economizer but an indefatigable worker. With help from various volunteer individuals and agencies, he prepared a bill authorizing the President to slash expenditures, notably in government salaries’ and veterans’ benefits. It should be noted that this was not in the form of a new budget or appropriation bill but an authorization for the President to make the cuts according to his discretion. With the bill, which was appropriately called “a bill to maintain the credit of the U.S. government,” went a message—one of the best and soundest of Roosevelt’s entire career. The bill was passed and was approved 10 days later. Nothing in those momentous days so started the blood of confidence to flow. It was the turning point in the depression and it was a most conservative move. Roosevelt in taking this action was moved by a shrewd appreciation of politics and of human nature. He realized that he must strike at once or forever hold his peace. If he did not do so, the forces of spending would mobilize in such force that he might never get an economy measure through Congress. Literally, he caught Congress off guard and he prevailed. Never mind what came later. For all the gains were eventually lost, including the economical Mr. Douglas. The lesson this should teach the present administration and the leaders of Congress is that if they expect to get economy or cut taxes or even balance the budget, they should act boldly. If they wait until the endless process of hearings on appropriations has been carried out, the present fiscal year will pass, vested interests in spending will dig in and the hopes of taxpayers and the promises of Republican politicians will vanish. To fix some goal and to get a commitment from Congress to meet that goal is the way to achieve economy. The “yes—if” attitude of both Eisenhower and Taft is bound to end in frustration. If economy could prevail in 1933 when people were crying for food and jobs, it ought to be possible in 1953. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.