Judith Coplon, who was, according to the evidence as evaluated by the courts of the United States, guilty of giving material entrusted to her as an employee of the government to an agent of the Soviet, is living in complete freedom. She has escaped just punishment for her offense because the Circuit Court of Appeals declared that her conviction in the lower courts could not stand because some of the leads which led to it came from wire tapping.
This contemptible creature has enjoyed every advantage of life, even her present undeserved freedom, because of the country she conspired to betray. She enjoyed a first class education under the auspices of a capitalistic system. She received in college what amounted to gratuitous education. She received from the government a job almost immediately paying more than those of full professors in the college from which she was graduated.
I asked a professor who knew her in college what seemed to be the matter with her there. He said that she complained that "nobody loved her." In her case it would seem that the country she betrayed loved her to the point of blind indulgence.
Atty. Gen. Brownell proposes that others of her ilk shall not enjoy the blessings of liberty simply because Congress failed in 1934 to pass a crook-proof Communications Act. That act provides that: "No person not authorized by the sender shall intercept any communication and divulge or publish its existence, contents, or the substance of such intercepted communications to any person."
This is a sound law in the generality of cases and occasions. The Attorney General does not propose to change it except to permit the introduction in court of evidence obtained by wire tapping in cases involving national security and defense; and in cases where wire tapping is done, there shall be written permission to the FBI by the Attorney General.
No constitutional question is involved in the present prohibition of the use of wire-tapping evidence. That was established in the Olmstead case in 1928.
In 1940, President Roosevelt authorized wire tapping, and it is being done continually by the FBI. The evidence thus obtained can be used for the removal of persons as security risks and for other purposes, but it cannot be used to convict a person of a crime in the Federal courts. Wire-tapping evidence is admissible in the courts of 30 States in State cases.
The arguments against the permission now requested by the Attorney General are of the same character as those used whenever there is proposed any weakening of the safeguards of the accused in criminal cases. They suggest those which were always used when it was proposed to let State judges comment upon evidence in the manner permitted to Federal judges.
Most of such objections are rooted in fear of possible executive tyranny. But in fact much of the power now exercised by executive authority could be misused by bad people in government. There are some, like former Judge Thurman Arnold, who indulge in absurd exaggerations. Arnold, who has always been a wild and windy user of language, says that if this legislation is passed, "everybody" will be afraid to use a telephone.
The late Justice Holmes once declared that wire tapping was "dirty business." Well, it is dirty business always to track down dirty people. But it must be done if good people are to be safe.
For the life of me, I cannot see why there is any difference in essence in the use of evidence heard by eavesdropping on a telephone wire or through a keyhole or from table to table in a saloon.
The practical fact that only an infinitely small number of telephones could be tapped should dispose of any general fear. And in the final analysis only the guilty and the abnormally sensitive can fear such a threat. An honest man is just as honest over a telephone as anywhere else.