It might be well for Americans to turn their attention from the McCarthy-Army fracas and take a look at something that really affects their lives. A glance at the life around us would remind us of the importance of tin and rubber in our personal economy. To a large extent we move about on rubber tires. And to a very great degree our food comes to us in tin containers. Whatever raises the price of tin is a burden on the grocery basket of every housewife. We depend to a large degree upon foreign producers for that tin. And those foreign producers are very, very anxious to charge us as much as possible for the very large amount of their product which comes to us. Their desire to keep prices high has found fervent support from our State Department bureaucracy and in the United Nations. Hence, there was constructed over a period of many months by representatives of tin-producing and tin-consuming countries an international tin agreement. This agreement would set up an international tin council, which to all intents, purposes and results would be an international cartel in which we would be the helpless minority voice among representatives of countries like Bolivia and Indonesia, which mainly are big producers, and Britain, which is, because of Malaya, a producer as well as a domestic consumer. The cartel created through this agreement would, according to reliable government estimates, cost American consumers approximately $45,000,000 a year. This would be a hidden handout at the expense of the American consumer, who in the end would pay when he bought canned groceries. After the State Department brought this agreement home from Europe it made vigorous efforts to get it adopted as an administration measure. But these efforts suddenly met strong opposition from two sources. The Randall commission majority report said that such commodity agreements would "if extensively employed, lead to very large outlays of U.S. government funds, in certain contingencies, of indeterminate amounts." A minority of the Randall body went even beyond this in describing such agreements as "cartel devices contrary to a free economy and likely to develop into forms of state production and trading." Another attack on the tin agreement came within the administration itself. The Interior Department, supported by the Treasury and Commerce Departments, vigorously attacked the plan. The result was a decisive defeat for the State Department, which was compelled to inform the countries with which it had so happily been negotiating for so long that the United States would not sign the agreement. Despite its belief in the agreement, it must have been sure that to submit such a deal to the Senate would raise a storm and probably revive a new drive for a Bricker amendment. But the State Department could not miss the chance to register its approval of the principle of the agreement by words which indicated that it would watch its operation with interest and which pointed out that the agreement could operate without the participation of the United States. In short, we shall probably be paying the piper anyhow. It is interesting to note this indirect approval by the State Department of a matter which the New Deal over the years has so vigorously denounced; namely, an international price-fixing cartel.