SOCIALISM
BY PACT
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

While much of the controversy that has developed over the Randall report on foreign economic policy centers upon the tariff recommendations; a more vital immediate matter is its condemnation of the surreptitious process of bringing controls into our domestic economy by international commodity agreements negotiated by the State Department, with little attention by Congress or by the public.

★

One example of a most unfortunate and costly operation of that kind is the International Wheat Agreement, which was renewed last summer under rather strange circumstances. This, however, is only the beginning of a long series of such cartelizations which have been under negotiation or are contemplated in many other lines of raw materials. The affinity of the State Department with that sort of thing is undoubtedly the reason why there is so much opposition to Section 3 of the Bricker amendment, which would bring such matters under the control of Congress.

The Randall report says: "The commission does not believe that extensive resort to commodity agreements will solve the problem of price instability; and it believes that such agreements introduce rigidities and restraints that impair the elasticity of economic adjustment and the freedom of individual initiative, which are fundamental to economic progress."

★

Thus this commission selected by President Eisenhower characterizes a procedure which the President himself was persuaded to favor last July and which the Senate approved. This at least gives the President if he will examine the facts carefully, an opportunity to alter his attitude on this vitally important matter. The wheat agreement had cost this country at least $600,000,000 by the time it was renewed in July. What it will cost beyond that is conjectural.

It is fantastic that the State Department, which has for many years favored what Secretary Hull called "more liberal trade policies," would also favor such policies fastening upon economic life a much more rigid and restrictive method of regulating not only international trade but the domestic economy.

The answer is obvious, however. Cutting out tariffs and locking ourselves in international compacts both help nations abroad at our expense. That is apparently the fixed purpose of the State Department bureaucracy, however illogical it may be.

In July the wheat agreement was rushed through the Senate without a record vote. Only one voice was raised against it—that of Democratic Sen. Frear of Delaware. Even the New York Times, which is strongly internationalist and seeks now to defeat the Bricker proposal, said editorially at the time:

"Thus at a time when we are pledging ourselves to a continuance of liberal foreign trade policy by extending the trade agreements act without crippling amendments we are riding off in the opposite direction, in a manner of speaking, by continuing as a member of an international commodity cartel which is the antithesis of trade liberalism."

The Randall report shows consistency of its own condemnation by the wheat agreement. It points out not only the violation of principle involved in it, but the fact that it is silly to establish inflexible supports which stimulate overproduction at home and, by international agreement, the dumping of the product abroad.

The result will be the dumping of surplus of other materials by foreign countries here.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.