TEEN-AGE
VOTING
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The President's proposal to
lower the voting age to 18 got
a good many headlines, but it
apparently failed to excite the
Congressmen who were listening to the message.
Perhaps most of those gentlemen and ladies were thinking about how they had
enough to worry about this
fall, what with all the votes
above 21 that they must entice. They are not eager to
enlarge the territory of their
campaigning.

A rough estimate of the
number who would be newly
eligible under the change is
about all that the census figures permit, and that is
6,000,000. By the 1960s, however, the relative proportion
will be much larger because
of the fact that the World
War II babies will be arriving at what the President believes to be political maturity.

The increase in eligible voters now by such a change
would be something like 6%.
That percentage will rise to
10 or more in a decade or
two.

While we are on this matter of percentage and without wishing to prejudice the
issue of responsibility, the
World Almanac indicates
that while at this time these
people within the 18-20 inclusive range would constitute only 6% of the eligible
voters they aggregate 9% of
the drivers involved in fatal
motor vehicle accidents.

It can hardly be said that
the fact that boys of 18 can
be drafted and exposed to the
danger of death is sufficient
reason for changing the voting age. If I accurately remember the testimony of the
military men who argued for
lowering the draft age, the
reason was that boys of that
age were proven to be competent soldiers. They are, so
the generals and admirals
say, easy to train. That was
apparently decided on the
basis of their capacity to perform a specific duty or office
in their country's service.
Voting is also an office. It
is not a reward or a right.
The voter performs a specific
function in the process of government, just as a justice of
the peace, a Sheriff, or a dog-
pound keeper performs a
statutory office. When we fix
the qualifications for an office we consider the probability
of faithful fulfillment of the
duties of that office. We
should do that when we extend the age of voting. I was
never impressed by the
claims of women before the
coming of women's suffrage
that they had a right to vote.
I favored their admission because I believed they were
as competent as men.

We have no way of judging the wisdom of voting relative to age groups. How people vote is a matter of opinion. Whether they vote is a
matter of fact. On that we
have a few figures which cast
no luster on the present
sense of responsibility of 20-
year-olds.

In 1952 McCall's magazine
published the results of a
poll of first voters on the
question whether they intended to vote in that Presidential year. Of the men,
57.4% said yes, 31.1% said
no and 11.5% didn't know. Of
the women, the three corresponding figures were 30.3,
29.2 and 31.5. This means in
all probability that considerably less than the "yes" figures actually voted. For intentions do not always materialize.

The outstanding scandal in
American life is the immense
percentage of eligible non-
voters. Even in Presidential
elections only about 55% of
eligibles vote. In other elections the percentage is considerably less than one-half.
There is no reason to believe that this situation would
be improved by admitting
more young eligibles.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.