INCOME TAX
REFORMS.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It has been bad enough
these past years for the tax-
payer to meet the mounting
cost, of government, but his
misery has been compounded
by the awkward, incompe-
tent and oppressive way in
which the government has
collected, its money.
Considering the fact that
collections increased in 20
years something like 35-fold,
it is small wonder that the
collecting machinery grew
without form or reason. Add
to that the fact that administration of the service under
Morgenthau, embodied hon-
esty without imagination and
that under his successors it
was neither imaginative nor
humane nor free of politics
and corruption. This mess is
what T. Coleman Andrews
took over on Feb. 4.

Andrews was a man highly
respected in his profession as
an accountant. He was used
to large business problems
and had proved his worth
with the first Hoover Commission. It took him some
weeks to get the whole picture of his job clearly in
mind, but then his constructive imagination began to
create constructive reforms.
Some of these he has already
put into effect; some are projected, and still others will
require action by Congress.
The most revolutionary and
the one which is likely to win
Republicans many a vote is
still under consideration. It
is called the "returns elimination program" and is designed
to relieve some 35,000,000 taxpayers of filing any returns
at all, Imagine the shout of
joy at such a program as that!
It is entirely reasonable, because that number, whose income is entirely derived from
salaries and wages, are now
all subject to withholding.
Only two other items are
necessary to figure the tax
the number of dependents
and whether the taxpayer
wants to take his customary
deductions. This plan would
require a polling of information by the Internal Revenue
Bureau and the Social Security Administration. It
would also require some sort
of Congressional action.

The purpose of the reforms
already put into operation by
executive action is to decentralize—to get some of the
bureaucracy out of Washington. There will be nine regional offices, each headed by
a regional commissioner, and
there will be 64 directors' offices, where most of the work
is done. There will be added
emphasis on helping taxpayers to prepare their returns.
To do that will eliminate a
vast number of errors which
have in the past required
enormous labor to discover
and to bring to the taxpayers' attention.
Most important is the feature of the present reorganization which moves the so-
called "postaudit" of returns
out of Washington and into
the directors' offices in the
field. After the returns are
audited, the taxpayer may appear before conferees in the
local office. If he is not satisfied, an extensive system of
appeals is available to him.
To make it possible for taxpayers and for those private
individuals who help taxpayers outside Washington, there
will be complete and simple
publications of rulings. These
means of simplifying the
preparation and consideration
of returns and the moving of
more operations into the field
will deal a heavy blow to the
private practitioners—some
lawyers, some accountants,
and some both—who have
been making a living in
Washington.

With only a few exceptions,
these are perfectly honest and
sincere people trying, like the
rest of us, to make a living
by giving service. Many of
them were once employees of
the bureau who have useful
contacts with people still employed there. The effect of the
reorganization will be to keep
their prospects out of Washington. It will also compel
those who stay in business to
make new contacts out in the
field.
A committee of Washington
tax practitioners has
been appointed and it has
strenuously objected to the
plan. That, of course, was to
be expected. Their complaints
were without avail because
the joint committee, including in its membership Byrd,
George, Reed, Millikin, and
others, heartily approved the
change.
So while the tax bite may
be nearly as deep in the future, there will be less tearing of the flesh. For this Commissioner Andrews and the
Treasury deserve much credit.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.