CARELESS
F. D. R..
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

While an anxious country
hears a confusion of opinions
from the Vice-President and
the Secretary of State about
the possibility of our involve-
ment in the Indo-China war,
the published accounts of
Adms. Theobald and Standley
have revived the controversy
over how we drifted into war
in 1941.
★
Perhaps the similarities are
superficial, but they are nevertheless
disturbing. For while President
Roosevelt was rather gayly encouraging
the Japanese emissaries in Washington
to hope for a settlement, the Secretary
of State was sending what the Japanese
government in Tokyo considered to be
an ultimatum.
Roosevelt, of course, was quite aware
of the Hull note, but for reasons that
lay only in the essential carelessness of
the man, he probably did not think the
Japanese would draw the conclusions
that they did.
Adm. Standley, in U.S. News & World
Report, and Adm. Theobald, in his book,
"The Final Secret of Pearl Harbor," make
a powerful case against the Commander
in Chief. It proves, it seems to me, that
Roosevelt was guilty of either gross
carelessness or of deliberate calculation.
Theobald seems to believe the latter. But
to anyone who was familiar with Roosevelt's
mind and methods, the secret must still
remain buried in Hyde Park.
★
The value of Theobald's documented and
up-to-date summary of the evidence is
plain. History should have its inexorable
way with people and events and the more
of it that is written by contemporaries
the better the future may be guided by
those who will be responsible for great
decisions.
Theobald narrates a series of facts that
can fit into either pattern—carelessness or
calculation. One could draw the conclusion,
if he accepts the Theobald account, that if
Roosevelt intended to have the Japanese
strike Pearl Harbor he would have done
what he did do. But such a series of facts
does not prove intent.
My reason for injecting the theory of utter
carelessness, plus the suggestion that the
mystery will never be solved for everybody,
is based upon extended and rather intimate
association with the extraordinary man who
is thus accused. Since I was with him
during the period of the gathering banking
storm in February and March, 1933, daily
and almost hourly, I have been asked on
countless occasions by people who have been
writing about him and his administrations
whether he planned with deliberation to
bring the banks to the brink of ruin before
he attempted to save them.
★
My answer has always been that I could
not know and that no one else could have
known. The record shows that if he had
intended to have the crisis culminate exactly
at the moment when he took over the White
House from Hoover, his actions were in line
with that intent. But his motives were
always deeply buried in as complex a mind
as ever existed.
But while his motives were concealed, his
methods were always overshadowed by a colossal
carelessness. For example, he never made
records of important conversations. He never,
to my knowledge, kept a diary. He talked
volubly, incessantly on all sorts of subjects.
And he faced crisis after crisis with nonchalance.
★
I know this well, for it was my job constantly
for 18 months and partially for 30 months
more to check and often to prepare his public
speeches. His habit of permitting others to
do the worrying and checking was outstanding.
Everyone around him knew that, and it cost
them many, many sleepless nights.
And so, in the handling of the Japanese
crisis, there may have been a feeling on his
part that war was inevitable, but that it
might not strike there and then. The sacrifice
of Kimmel and Short was indefensible, for
they were innocent. But that was in character,
too.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.