UNFAIR
TAXES
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

While the Senate is considering the lengthy and in most
instances excellent proposals
for the revision of the Internal Revenue Code made by
President Eisenhower's
Treasury Department, the
Committee on Federal Tax
Policy, headed by Roswell
Magill, former Undersecretary of the Treasury, has issued the best brief and cogent
summary of our confused and
unfair tax laws that has appeared in many a year.

*

It does not follow or agree
in all respects with the President's proposals but rather
it plots a course which Congress might well follow in
this and future revisions.
Every taxpayer, large and
small, might well ponder this
question of taxation, for not
only is it a major factor in
the life of the individuals but
it may well determine the
kind of country in which our
children will have to live. For
to go on as we are is to stifle
our liberty and alter our social and political life.
Our Federal tax system is
a monument of expediency,
experimentation, temporizing
and class prejudice. The result is an utterly confused
and complex patchwork. Its
mysteries are such that only
the experts can penetrate it,
and that fact keeps a host of
such experts, lawyers and
former government employees, in a good and comfortable living. The need for expert service is another burden on the already burdened
taxpayer.

★

Some of the more glaring
defects in present-day tax
laws as pointed out by the
Magill committee are these:

1—There is no rational justification for high corporation
taxes except insofar as they
become to a degree excise
taxes. That is, they pass on a
part of the tax in the price of
the goods. But they do more.
They retard the growth of
new and not well-established
businesses. Small and new
companies can grow only by
retaining some of their earnings for expansion. The high
corporate tax encourages
waste and extravagance, of
which the excessive expense
account is only one example.

2—Reliance on the individual income tax to the degree
now reached creates a most
unstable revenue return. On
the other hand, excise taxes,
properly applied, are stable.
“The United States is far behind other nations in the use
of excises. In Canada excises
contribute 26% of total revenues for the national government; in England the proportion is 12%. In the United
States it is only 15%.

3—Complete chaos and
overlapping exists in the allocation of tax sources to the
Federal government, the
States and the local communities. The commission, formerly headed by Clarence
Manion, was created to suggest remedies for this, but
the abrupt firing of the
chairman stymied chances
for an effective attack upon
this problem in the immediate future.

★

Another great defect in our
system of taxing business is
the administration of what is
called Section 102. This section of the present law was
created to make certain that
corporations should not hold
in their reserves excessive
amounts of money that otherwise might be paid out in
dividends.
But under the administration
of the law there has been
a tendency to force the payment of dividends when wise
business policy should require
larger reserves for a rainy
day. This contributes to the
sharpness of any decline in
business activity, adds to unemployment, and hinders
growth.
The law should require a
heavy burden of proof on the
tax collector in determining
when this section should be
applied.

In another article I shall
outline some of the suggestions of the Magill committee for fundamental reform
of our tax system.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.