ISSUES IN
BRITAIN
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

LONDON — The Churchill Parliament has passed
into history, and Churchill's successor, Sir Anthony
Eden, must now go before the country for a
grant of authority in a new Parliament.

Election issues in Britain are simply drawn.
Each party issues a manifesto which is in essence a
platform which in the American sense "points
with pride and views with alarm."

The parties also issue a text or "guide" book which
is a compendium of information and argument for
campaign workers. The guidebooks are admirable
performances. Nothing ever done in American politics
has approached them in fullness of detail or clarity
of presentation.

The parties are able to present their cases in detail
because their central offices work the year round under
the close authority of party leaders, members of Parliament
and of the Cabinet. Hence, the literature put
out by the central office is really the authentic language
of the party.

From here on, the debate will go to the workers in
the constituencies and to the party leaders who are
privileged to speak to the nation over the radio and
on television. But what is heard is largely a repetition
or elaboration of the manifestoes. The issues are
set. The lesson is written. What remains is to pound
it into the minds of the electorate.

A common misconception in the United States
holds that there is very little difference between
the British parties so far as ideology is concerned.

I have often heard it said that since the Conservative
Party has adopted social insurance, Socialized medicine,
a managed currency and other Socialistic devices, the
whole thing comes down to the personalities who run the
machinery of government.

It is true that all parties have generally accepted
the general principle of large welfare expenditures
and full employment. These have ceased to be party issues
and have come to be national policies. That is
true of some of the New Deal reforms introduced in
the 1930s in the United States.

But it is the margin of difference that counts in
politics, and in British politics that margin is large and
pregnant with meaning.

The real difference in the policies of the British
parties is the direction that is indicated in their plans
for the future. It is not, said the late Will Hays, the
length of the step but the direction that counts.

The road ahead as described in the Labor Party
is toward more and more government and sharing the
wealth. The direction in which the Conservative
manifesto points is toward more inducements toward
private initiative and achievement.

Two or three of the major generalities in both manifestoes
state the differences as clearly as political clichés ever
can define issues. Labor still calls for "fair shares," as
it has in three preceding elections. It will "encourage
schemes of industrial democracy," and it insists upon
the "abolition of want." All these will be achieved by
the power of the state.

The Conservative watchword is "a property-owning
democracy." It favors "full employment" just as labor
does, but it adds to the phrase something that Socialism
hesitates to mention — that every worker must "do his
job to the full."

In succeeding articles I shall offer illustrations of
what the parties really mean by these phrases.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.