Unless the Cairo conference was conducted in that gay and casual mood that distinguished the other wartime conferences in which Roosevelt and Churchill were leading figures, the written record of that meeting might be very pertinent to the present crisis over Formosa.  But the record of that conference, like that of Yalta and other such meetings, is still hidden away in the hands of the State Department bureaucracy. At a moment when we may all be called upon for wartime sacrifices, we might well, after 11 years, be informed of exactly what a departed President pledged us to.  It was reported before the recent election—long after any possible political use could be made of what a former administration did for us at Yalta—that we might be permitted to see the Yalta papers, or at least that part of the record that the bureaucrats felt we might be safely trusted with.  In October the magazine Newsweek published some of the information which had leaked out. The State Department was not pleased with that disclosure, especially since it indicated that some vital remarks by President Roosevelt had been expurgated.  Later, for some reason, it was determined not to release the Yalta papers as scheduled. The Cairo and Potsdam papers should also be forthcoming, but they are not yet available. Unless the Democratic leadership in Congress is just as fearful of what might be disclosed as is the State Department bureaucracy, it might well ask for a look at the record before the dread die of war is cast in the Far East.  What we do know from statements released at the time of the Cairo conference is that Messrs. Roosevelt and Churchill assured Generalissimo and Mrs. Chiang that Japan was to be deprived of all the conquests it had gained by aggression since the visit of Commodore Perry in 1853. And that Formosa, Manchuria and the Pescadores should be restored to China. Russia was not a party to that declaration and was later given rights in the alleged Chinese territory of Manchuria which substantially denied Chinese sovereignty there.  The surrender of Japan threw the question of sovereignty into doubt. Later, Japan was formally ousted by the peace treaty of 1952. Chiang took over by sufferance and presumably exercises de facto sovereignty. But the United States as the liberator of Formosa and the Pescadores has an interest in defending those territories against attack by a force which we do not recognize as the legitimate government of China.  In this cloudy atmosphere in the Far East it is impossible to expect any precise recognition of the sovereignty of Chiang over Formosa and the Pescadores. Force and force alone will probably prevail for some time.  But the American people are entitled to know all that went on at that historic Cairo meeting. This the State Department has a duty to disclose.