RAYMOND MOLEY:
Pension Fund Policies
Hurt Older Workers
I recently heard an experienced newspaperman, who was in what used to be the prime of life at 50, tell of his distressing experience in getting another job.
After 20 happy, productive years the paper for which he worked folded. To his amazement, he found almost all doors closed to him for the simple reason that he was "too old."
His reflections on what caused this denial of opportunity in what used to be called a "land of opportunity" apply not only to his business of newspapering but to many other fields.
Since contracts with unions require most employers to maintain a standard wage, there can be no cut rates. There was a time when older men could be hired at somewhat less than younger ones. There were various scales' which permitted such discrimination.
Older men, especially those past 55 who had raised their families and who, in many cases, were protected by private insurance and property ownership, could afford to work for less than they had required in their 30s.
★
A more important barrier to older men is the presence of insurance and pension plans which have been largely imposed upon management by the pressure of unions. Ultimately, this problem may level itself out.
All important companies will probably have such plans and they will have been in effect long enough so that men in their 40s and 50s will have an equity which can be transferred when they change jobs. But such plans are not universal now, and where they are, they have not been in operation many years.
Hence, very few wage earners over 50 have an equity of importance in any pension plan, and many have nothing at all. When these plans began to be imposed a few years ago, there was plenty of warning that they would result in the tightening of opportunities for older men. This warning has been verified by the fact.
Secretary of Labor Mitchell in a recent issue of Collier's has drawn attention to the tragic results of denying opportunities to older men, not only in their personal lives but in the loss of productive power in the nation as a whole. For obvious reasons he fails to stress the responsibility of unions for this condition, but, some of his facts deserve note.
★
He points out that there is a great increase in the percentage of the population over 45. In 1900 the proportion was 18%. In 1953 it was 29%. And it is reliably predicted that in the next 10 years the increase will be much larger, perhaps to 40 or 50%.
Thus, half of our people and half of our useful producers of wealth will be handicapped by artificial rules foolishly designed as security measures.
Two tendencies in our present national policies, urged in the sweet name of welfare, are in reality heavy handicaps for people in middle life and beyond.
The first is inflation caused by grandiose plans to provide security of various sorts for all the people. There are several such schemes in the President's recent message. Inflation has already stolen a considerable part of the wealth saved by people now beyond 45 by cutting the purchasing power of the dollar.
★
The other false form of welfare is in pension plans and other forms of fringe benefits which limit the opportunities of older workers.
The deeper delusion in this situation is that inflation will ultimately shear away from the fancied security now provided for the young at the expense of their elders.
Thus, many political schemes for security ultimately will contribute to the insecurity of all.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.