LONDON — As an American I cannot help feeling surprised at how calmly the newspapers here, including the quite proper Times, regard the Labor manifesto. For if a major party in the United States should propose such an aggregation of collectivist promises there would be either violent denunciation or a burst of derisive laughter.
For in plain, cold manner the Socialist program promises something for everybody — except, of course, an unnamed selfish few.
Let us list some examples in the field of domestic affairs.
Consumers are promised a "steady" cost of living.
On this point the cream of the jest is that the cost of living has gone up simply because by abandoning food subsidies and other extravagances taxes have been lowered and consumers have had more to spend.
Consumers will be protected against shoddy goods. Under Socialism, the buyer need not beware; government watches over his every purchase.
Housing, which is already subsidized, will be entirely nationalized. But tenants will be enabled by government to buy their own homes.
All medical and dental services will be free for all. The small charges on false teeth, spectacles, and prescriptions will be abolished.
Every year pensions, allowances, and other benefits will be revised to keep them in line with the cost of living.
There will be more teachers and more schools. The "standards of our schools" will be higher, but examinations will be easier. This will make a hit with the children. Everybody who needs it will get a scholarship in a university.
There will be more playing fields, and there will be no tax on sports and the "living" theater. There will be another television service, without advertising.
The steel and "road haulage" industries will be nationalized again. Sections of the chemical and machine industries will be nationalized. And "where necessary, we shall start new industries."
The farmer need never worry again about prices. He will have a fixed, guaranteed return for his products. Farmers get more credit and advisory services. Water supplies will be extended.
All these additional and costly goods and services will be supplied by heavier taxes on dividends, by pursuing tax dodgers, by heavier taxes on large inheritances and capital gains.
I have so far found no Labor pronouncement that the people who will receive all these promised benefits will be required to work harder or sacrifice anything.
They were asked by the Labor government when it was in power to tighten their belts. There is no suggestion of austerity in this campaign.
Most surprising and regrettable, there is not a word calling upon the independence, the moral fiber, or the spiritual impulses of a great people. The appeal is all to the bodily and monetary concerns of voters. It is Marxism, stark, materialistic, and godless.