THE 'YALTERED' PAPERS FARCE
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
We humans are all feeble and fallible creatures. This any man with honesty and moderate intelligence can prove to himself by reviewing the actions and decisions of his own life.
The wisdom of the ages speaks of this truth and those men who made our Constitution attempted to guard against error by restricting the powers of the little men who for a short time happen to be elevated to high place.
They sought to limit and balance the power of government because they knew well the limitations of the human beings who would, in fact, be the government.
Nothing has ever driven this home with greater force than the farce that has surrounded the disclosure of the Yalta papers.
Almost 10 years rolled by and everybody around Washington knew that in the vast hive of whispering, paper-shuffling bureaucracy known as the State Department the official minutes of the Yalta conference were being assembled and edited.
★
They were also being carefully expurgated by the very people who have had the most to conceal.
Pressure in Congress and elsewhere mounted to have the text revealed, and early last autumn the State Department announced that the papers would be published in December.
This was obviously designed to avoid the suggestion that they would be published before election. Such publication would be damaging to the Democratic Party and, as is evident, the State Department follows a policy of kindness toward past administrations.
The magazine Newsweek secured access to some of the documents, especially some of those which had been marked for exclusion from the record ultimately to be published.
One of the latter consisted of a statement by Roosevelt, presumably in jest, but quite unkind, which would properly be resented by American Jews. This publication either angered or confused the department so much that it failed to carry out its announced plan of revealing the documents in December.
Then on March 14 there was the incredible announcement that 24 copies of the papers, nicely bound, were to be sent to leaders of both parties in Congress on condition that they be kept confidential.
As long ago as when I was in the government it was taken for granted by everyone in the administration that to tell something to even one Senator was a sure way to get it into the papers the next day.
To give 24 copies to members of Congress would multiply that certainty by two dozen.
Of course, that is what the State Department wanted, because such a means of making the stuff public might leave the administration room to say that the papers were revealed by Democrats. It was stupid to believe that such a trick might work with such old-timers as Sen. George. Immediately the Democrats announced that they would not receive the papers.
Then the department decided not to send the papers to Congress.
★
This suggested the game of hearts, with every contestant trying to unload the queen of hearts on someone else.
The excuse that the documents were withheld because of the objections of the Churchill government may or may not be true, although Secretary Dulles refused to deny that rumor.
But the cream of the jest is that long ago Sir Winston himself in his book, "Triumph and Tragedy," told the story as he wanted it told and sold it to publishers in the United States.
Finally, the public should be warned that this mass of material is not the whole story. It is only such parts as are, in the infinite wisdom of the State Department, good for Americans to see. These documents have been called quite appropriately the "Yaltered" papers.
In another piece I shall offer some evidence also bearing on the fallibility of human government from the record itself. But that is not mere comedy. It is macabre tragedy.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.