LONDON—The Conservative Party has been given a sizable vote of confidence, but it has plenty of hard going ahead. For the Labor Party, despite the inferiority in organization and money which I have noted in earlier dispatches, is still a massive and aggressive opposition. It will have plenty of opportunity to check upon Conservative actions in Parliament because its own promises were not unlike those of its opponents.

I have often heard in the United States the comment that essentially there is little difference between the two parties in Britain. Both favor many of the specifications of the welfare state. The London Times said solemnly at the outset of this campaign that this was an election without an issue.

★

Both parties favor a broad program of social security, including medical care paid by the government. Both are for subsidized housing, with the Conservatives claiming that they have built more houses than their opponents. Both are for tax concessions for the lower income groups.

In fact, I have heard from some Conservatives complaints that all the tax relief has been for the lower income people, and little or nothing for the middle class and the big investors.

Both are for full employment, if necessary sustained by government action. Both are for more schools and hospitals and maternity care.

Except for some lapses when their majorities were very large, the Conservatives have followed the line created by Disraeli when he reorganized the party a century ago. He made it clear that the working classes and agriculture must be helped and protected, both politically and economically.

★

It was Disraeli who conceived and secured the enactment of the Reform Act of 1867. And after the beatings administered by the Liberals early in the present century, the Conservative Party adopted many social reforms.

It was expedient for the Labor Party in this campaign to stress the milder issues raised in its manifesto. For it decided that while nationalization and other extreme measures were an objective ultimately to be sought there was more interest in food prices, wages and taxes at this time.

Perhaps the difference between the parties can best be expressed in terms of an old expression common in the United States that the important thing is not the length of the step but the direction.

I asked two friends of Clement Attlee out in the former Prime Minister’s constituency whether it would not be fair to say that while expediency determines the length of the step, it is philosophy that determines the direction.

★

They agreed, but hastened to add that government should assume full control of the resources of the nation. I asked them whether by resources they meant what economists call the “national dividend.”

They said “yes.” The national dividend being substantially what we call in the United States the national income, this would mean as complete a Socialization of all income as possible.

Another great difference between the parties is competence in administration. The Labor Party has plenty of so-called intellectuals, professors, writers and social workers, But it is short on competent industrial administrators, experienced lawyers and engineers.

It has probably been this great superiority in talent, in addition to better political machinery, that won this election for the Conservatives.

Apparently the electorate is tiring is tepid. If it remained tepid the par-