HOOVER REPORT AS AN ISSUE IN '56
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
For nearly 20 years Democratic orators sought votes by attacking the Hoover administration. Apparently some politicians, looking to 1956, are preparing to resurrect that moth-eaten and discredited issue, but this time in a new form.
It is planned to attempt to discredit the commission which popularly bears the former President's name by an attack upon its reports.
The biggest storm will arise within the next few weeks because under the law the commission must submit the remainder of its reports before July 1.
Before that date the most controversial and perhaps the most important of all of its reports will come out. This will deal with the question of water resources and public power, including the TVA.
Anticipating a verdict not wholly favorable to the extension of the Federal power business, Sen. Morse has already attacked the impartiality and competence of the task force which has been working on the subject.
The Bureau of Reclamation, which, except for the incidental fact that there is a Republican President and Interior Secretary, is still the old Ickes apparatus propagandizing public power, has attacked ex-Gov. Leslie Miller, a member of that task force, as an enemy of reclamation.
*
The official head of the Democratic Party in the House, Majority Leader McCormack, has challenged the power of the Hoover Commission to make any recommendations which concern policy. And the House Committee on Government Operations is conducting a full-dress attack upon the Hoover reports as they come out.
For weeks the Congressional Record has been spotted with hostile references to the work of the commission.
This contention of McCormack comes down to saying that it would be fine if the commission would be content to assume that everything the government does is a legitimate function and merely suggest how it can be done at less expense.
In short, never ask why a thing should be done, but merely suggest how it can be done better. The statute creating the commission specifically permits it to go into the "why" as well as the "how."
*
One of the most unfortunate aspects of the situation is that in carrying on its hatchet work on the Hoover reports, the Committee on Government Operations is getting ammunition from the bureaucrats in the Republican Eisenhower administration itself.
It is true, as McCormack says, that this Hoover Commission, unlike the former one which operated under the Truman regime, is making recommendations concerning policy. The former one was restricted to making suggestions concerning administrative organization and methods. But McCormack is wrong when he says that this commission has no authority to concern itself with policy.
The agencies which have been surveyed by the task forces of the commission are channeling their protests to the Democratic House Committee.
Apparently there is no disposition on the part of the President or his top officials to defend and protect the very commission which they helped to create.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.