BLUEPRINT FOR PARTY
ACTION BY IKE
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

An experienced and politically sophisticated man
who heard President Eisenhower's speech to the 48
State chairmen in Denver said afterward that "it was
the best speech that Ike ever made." After a careful
reading and analysis of the text of the speech, I am
heartily of the same opinion. The excellence of the
speech must be measured against the purpose for
which it was delivered and the personal necessities and
interests of the people to whom it was made. For
the "virtue" of anything (as Aristotle said) or its excellence
(as we say) must always be judged not absolutely but in the
light of the purpose for which it is created. This speech
was delivered to the 48 people who must in the next political
campaign command the political organization in their
States. They are, as the military man in Eisenhower
expressed it, the "corps commanders" of the Republican army.

★

The former commander of the forces in Europe
noted that their number is about the same as that of
the corps commanders over whom he had authority in
1944 and 1945. These party generals had just been
through a two-day training and refreshing course in
Washington where they were addressed by experts in
political methods and where they had exchanged views and
ideas among themselves. The information thus gathered
they are to take back to similar schools in their own States,
where they will meet with the county chairmen. Then the
county chairmen will meet with the local officers of the
party for the same purpose. The President's speech was
planned as a part of this program. It should be noted that
the speech was not written for the President. In fact, it
was not written at all. It was completely extemporaneous.
That makes the fine pattern of it the more amazing. A
speech, in order to carry over to hearers something they
can easily remember, has a pattern, or "points." Eisenhower
took as his major divisions of thought, Lincoln's "of the
people, by the people, and for the people."

★

Rearranging the order in which he presented these, his
ideas were as follows: 1—A party must have a philosophy
which holds it together. Otherwise it is a mere means of
attaining power in the government. 2—Republicans must be a
party "of the people" as individual citizens of all sorts and
conditions. It should not aim at "a government of farmers,
of labor bosses, of smart politicians, of businessmen or of
anyone else." This means that the appeal must be to those
values that are common to all and which deny class interests
and hatreds. The appeal must be to bring people together,
not to set them off in conflicting groups. This is sharply in
contrast with the preachments of class antagonisms so prominent
in recent speeches of ex-President Truman. 3—"For the people"
does not mean "that an overwise and overbusy governmental
bureaucracy takes over all the functions of living." The
President paid his respects to "demagogic types" who have
"tortured the general welfare clause of the Constitution."

4—"By the people" means that a citizen must not only
make certain that he votes himself, but that he should make
every effort to bring others to the polls. Eisenhower might
well have cited an expression of the late Will Hays: "Want-
ed—twenty million politicians." The President pointed out
that in Presidential elections only about half of the eligibles
vote, and that in other elections the percentage falls as low
sometimes as 25%. The place to work for victory is among
the great numbers who do not vote at all.

★

Finally, he pointed out that since a great market consisting
of 50% of the eligibles exists there is no really hopeless State
or district. The political war will be won by better and better
organization. It is a pity that so many of the headlines stressed
that he warned his listeners that they must not depend upon a
single personality alone. What he meant by that was that a
party must consist of an efficient organization of hard workers
as well as a popular candidate. For while men are mortal, a
party must be the nearest thing to immortality that we have in
our earthly life. It would be well that this speech or a reasonable
summary thereof could be placed in the hands of millions of
party workers. It is not only a credo but a manual of practical
politics.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.