Before October is much
older, Ohio will be making
very interesting political
news, perhaps as hot as
that which concerned the
battle of 1950 between the
late Sen. Taft and the CIO.
The CIO, which seemed
determined to add Ohio to
Michigan as a captive State,
has placed upon the ballot
for a vote on election day
a bill to accomplish two important purposes. First, it
would make it legal for employees to accept supplemental unemployment compensation from an employer without losing their rights under State law.
Then it would greatly increase the unemployment compensation to a figure which is equaled only in Nevada.
The CIO, it is reported, will throw money and organizers into the State without stint. On the other hand, Ohio management is organizing its forces to defeat the proposal.
It is important to note that under the Ford-GM-UAW-CIO agreements the companies' payments do not begin until two-thirds of the employees concerned are covered by a State law which would permit them to accept the supplementary compensation.
Michigan has 56% of the workers of those companies, and Ohio is next with 11%. Michigan is already accounted for. Ohio is therefore the next big target.
The present proposal, which has been placed upon the November ballot, was before the Ohio Legislature at its 1955 session but failed of passage.
Unemployment compensation began in Ohio in 1939 with provision for $15 for 16 weeks. Two years later it was increased to $16 for 18 weeks. Then there was an increase to $21 for 24 weeks, and later to $28 for 26 weeks. An additional allowance was made for dependents.
In 1953 the rate per week was raised to $30 for 2S weeks, and in 1955 the figure was increased to $33, with a maximum of $39.
The proposal to be submitted to the voters would raise the maximum to $59 for 39 weeks.
The opposition to the proposal points out that the present Ohio compensation law is the most generous in the nation with one exception, that it would load the State with an additional burden of expenditure of $47,500,000, and that, since it would raise unemployment compensation above 50% of the wage for working, it would be "more attractive to fish than work."
Attention is also called to the inconsistency, not to say unfairness, of providing a minimum wage of $1 an hour by law and also a rate of compensation of $1.48 tax free for not working.
When this proposal was before the Ohio Legislature earlier this year, Gov. Frank Lausche denounced it as "fantastic."
The national significance of this fight is that it is the first big test of the Reuther political apparatus since the merger of the CIO and AFL. It will also bring into sharp perspective the place of Gov. Lausche in the Democratic political "picture.