SOCIAL CREDIT AGAIN
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
There is a guarded prediction from the Treasury that the budget might be balanced and that, in addition, there will be on hand from the taxgathering from this booming year something like a billion dollars of surplus.
Consequently, there will be, in the great 1956 year of promises, suggestions from politicians everywhere of methods to exchange this cash for votes. Only the grimly honest Sen. Knowland, in a manner strongly reminiscent of that of the late Sen. Taft, suggests that Uncle Sam first pay off some of his debt. Not so with those who propose raising tax exemptions, thus providing all small-income people with something like cash on the barrelhead. Also not so with those who would guarantee the farmers, competent and incompetent alike, a fixed handout.
Those who would purchase votes in these two indirect ways should ponder the greatly simplified plan now revived in Alberta by the Social Credit Party.
That province, once known only for its beautiful mountains and its impoverished farmers, is now suffering from an embarrassment of riches. The Social Credit Party, which has ruled the province since 1935, is also suffering from a deep political embarrassment in the form of scandals for which the government is responsible. Only last June the party suffered a severe setback, losing 15 seats to the Liberals.
It is now proposed to combine the embarrassment of riches with the embarrassment of the government and literally give each adult citizen $25 over the counter. The treasury of the province is groaning under a surplus of $140,000,000. The government has collected from its oil and mineral resources over the last year more than $400,000,000. The previous year the take was $90,000,000.
Back in the days when the Rev. William Aberhart was preaching the exceedingly complicated theories of Maj. Douglas' Social Credit he found that his appeal was going over the heads of his listeners. He then added to the plan an immediate cash gift of $25 a head. This was to suffice until the Social Credit Utopia should emerge.
After he was elected, he failed to pay as promised, but apparently that cost him no prestige. Now, with dire trouble staring him in the face, Aberhart's successor, William T. Manning, has revived the idea. It is called an "individual participation dividend."
It will not be enacted by the provincial Parliament without loud outcries from the municipalities, because they want the surplus distributed among them, thus lifting the burden of taxation.
Moreover, Manning seems to think that the best defense against the incessant hammering he has received from the Liberal leader, J. Harper Prowse, the powerful Calgary Herald, and the Edmonton Journal, is to move aggressively into other provinces. Hence, his party is entering candidates in Manitoba and Saskatchewan with the avowed purpose of becoming the largest opposition group in the national Parliament at Ottawa. No doubt the flush prosperity enjoyed in Alberta will make it possible to finance this expensive campaign.
This barefaced suggestion to give $25 to all would shock some of our more ardent advocates of handouts in the United States. But they should be reminded that the difference is only a matter of method. And surely the administrative simplicity commends itself when compared with an overhauling of our tax laws or with new forms of making farming pay.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.