Shortly after the election, the following appeared in an AP dispatch from Washington:
"An official in a position to know said 'the machinery has already been set in motion at the Vice-Presidential and Cabinet level to take a long, hard look at the natural-resource and power policies.'
"Advocates of public power who have been fighting the President's partnership plan for developing further hydroelectric projects have leaped upon this statement and have interpreted it to mean that because Democratic Senatorial candidates won in Oregon, Washington and Idaho, as well as Colorado, the administration will now return to the Roosevelt-Ickes-Truman policy of Federal development and public power."
It is not clear just who was allegedly speaking for the administration, but that sort of slant sounds like the Bureau of Reclamation which, always hungry for new, expensive projects to work upon, has never been in sympathy with the policies instituted under the Eisenhower regime.
In any event, the statement has been widely published and deserves close attention.
Pressed on this subject, Secretary of the Interior Seaton stated in Salt Lake City on Nov. 16 that the administration is going ahead with its partnership policy. "We see no reason," he said, "to inflict the whole burden of financing these projects on the Federal government wherever and whenever non-Federal interests are willing to assume a share. So long as the public interests are protected the end results are the same."
Nevertheless, certain newspapers in the Northwest are reporting that the administration is considering a high dam in the Snake River at Pleasant Valley. This project would not only take precedence over a plan by the power companies in the region—a plan already before the Federal Power Commission—to build two dams with private capital, but it would flood one of the sites already granted to the Idaho Power Co.
There is plenty of evidence that it was not the power issue, nor indeed any issue, that defeated Republicans in Oregon, Washington and Idaho. Personalities had most to do with all three results. There was also, in Washington and Oregon, a tremendous drive by the political arms of the unions.
In a survey of Washington voters during the campaign, the administration's partnership plan was favored by a majority of three to one. In a survey of Oregon voters, in which six issues were suggested, the power issue was rated fifth in importance. Both of these surveys were made by reputable agencies.
But even if the voters in Washington and Oregon should favor the exclusion of private investors' money from the building of major projects and the use of Federal money, the administration should note that it is supposed to conserve the interests of the taxpayers in the 46 States which must contribute to these great projects in two States.
To ask the voters of a State whether or not they want Federal money spent in their State is like asking all boys under 16 if they want free bicycles. It isn't what the voters of this State want that counts. This is a matter of national interest and also a question whether the money can be gotten without recourse to the Federal Treasury.