One of the most interesting and instructive documents of the year is the report by Sen. Ellender of Louisiana on his trip last year to 33 foreign countries inspecting our American operations abroad. principally those which bear the somewhat misleading characterizations of "economic aid."
The Senator deserves a resounding vote of thanks for his efforts in this field. Scorning the ease and delights which might be his, for he can be rid of the worry of winning re-election, he has fared forth year after year since 1950, as a part of his responsibilities as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, to foreign lands to see at first hand how our money is being spent.
The American taxpayer is entitled to some amusement for his money, and Sen. Ellender recites many amusing but regrettable examples of our adventures abroad. It is very expensive entertainment, but I believe Americans would like to read herein what might be called the tale of the lonely fish expert in Thailand. There are equally absurd examples of our spending, notably in South Korea, but this one must suffice for today.
In earlier reports of the Senator he told of the so-called fisheries project in Thailand. It seems that Thailand is like New Jersey, wet in the south and dry in the north. Hence the itch of Washingtonian bureaucracy to bring water to arid regions manifested itself over there in the creation of 4000 fishponds in the northern part of the country.
But what is a fishpond without fish? Hence the dispatch of a fish expert to develop schools of a fish called the tilopie in the vacant waters of those ponds. For five years the fish expert labored, and the fish presumably multiplied.
It happens that even the fish expert admitted to Sen. Ellender that there is in Southern Thailand an abundance of fish and shrimp-sufficient to satisfy all the fish appetites of the dry north. It is also true that we have spent millions and millions on highways, railways, and air transportation, which should assure the supply of fish and shrimp for the people in the north. But bureaucrats never draw a logical conclusion from such circumstances.
Sen. Ellender forcefully recommends the termination of the project of the fish expert in Thailand and we may look forward to the man's return to some bureau in Washington and the ultimate issuance therefrom of a fat monograph entitled "My Life Among the Tilopie."
★
The Senator's account of his observations in Thailand includes this bit of irony. He notes that in 1956 an agreement was concluded with the government of Thailand by which we made available $400,000 to pay American experts in modernizing that nation's budgetary procedures and accounting programs. A staff of experts will advise and consult over a 26-month period.
Sen. Ellender adds that "it is interesting, to say the least, that the United States of America, with its huge debt and almost chronic deficit, has now undertaken to advise foreign governments on budgetary practices and procedures." It might be added that twice the Hoover Commission has recommended modernizing our budgetary and accounting procedures, and nothing has been done about it.