COLD WAR
AND AID
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
"It seems perfectly legitimate to discuss the dimensions of our aid programs, so long as we don't try to reduce them; the beneficiaries of the programs, so long as we don't raise questions as to their politics or performance, and the methods of providing aid, so long as we don't injure the finer sensibilities of the recipients. But to go beyond that is to invite castigation as a heretic, a reactionary or, worse yet, an isolationist."
It was with this challenging introduction that an American businessman of recognized capacity and of proved compassionate instincts recently examined the fundamental premises of our expenditures of some 55 billion dollars to date. The speaker was H. W. Balgooyen, executive vice-president of the American & Foreign Power Co.
*
Mr. Balgooyen went on to make the point that no one really regards these programs as humanitarian. Even their most ardent exponents put them on the basis of protecting our national interests. Among the various reasons offered in support of foreign economic aid, two named by Mr. Balgooyen stand out. They are:
"We must build up the economic and social 'infrastructure' of the underdeveloped countries, so that a base will be provided for investment, capital formation and trade.
"We must help these countries to improve the standard of living of their people, so that they will be more resistant to Communism."
★
Mr. Balgooyen admits that in the first of the categories above there is a limited field for extending aid on humanitarian grounds. These extensions of aid, however, should in the main be to meet emergencies, and they should be given without the implication that we do it in our self-interest or that we expect to be repaid with gratitude or friendship. The latter category should be left to private enterprise, and the concern of our government should be to encourage the creation of conditions that will make the inflow of private capital possible.
But, says Mr. Balgooyen, the most seductive reason given for extending economic aid is that if the standard of living of foreign populations can be raised, they will be better able to resist the blandishments of Communism. Of this, Mr. Balgooyen says:
"No doubt, this will mark me as a real heretic, but I believe it would be worthwhile to re-examine one of the major premises underlying the whole argument for our foreign economic aid programs—namely, that people lacking in material wealth are peculiarly susceptible to Communism; or the corollary that economic aid in the form of gifts or grants will build up their resistance against Communist subversion.
"I have never seen satisfactory evidence to support this belief.
"Are there more Communists in the underdeveloped regions of India, Italy or rural France or in the industrialized cities of these countries?
*
"They are found among the pseudointellectuals, the eggheads, the misanthropes—the cynical exploiters of their fellow men. Where the Communists have made the greatest gains they have achieved them not with gifts but by means of person-to-person contacts, propaganda, promises and educational work which seem to have more than offset all our generosity and good deeds
"In our strange obsession with the economic aspects of the cold war, we seem to have failed to comprehend the true nature of Communism—that it is really more of a philosophy or a religion than an economic movement—and that its gains have been due to the fact that its adherents believe in it, and work for it, with a zeal unknown to most of us who are the unthinking, if not unconscious, recipients of the blessings of political liberty and economic freedom."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.