ON MONEY
POLICY
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In some respects the current controversy over the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board resembles the battle which attended the creation of the Federal Reserve System in 1913 and 1914.

The age-old struggle between those who favor inflation and those who want stable money is present now as it was then. But the form of the conflict and the methods proposed by the easy-money people are superficially different.

*

The present board under the leadership of its chairman, William McChesney Martin Jr., seems determined to keep credit tight with a slow rise in interest rates. Under the powers possessed by the board and because of the long 14-year overlapping terms of the members, it looks as if the board could hold out against anything except drastic legislation by Congress. Under all circumstances that is not likely to happen.

In 1913 when Woodrow Wilson entered the White House he was pledged to a reform of the currency system. A plan had been prepared after some years' study to achieve that end. This plan, which bore the name of its principal author, Sen. Nelson W. Aldrich, was considered wise by the major bankers of New York.

★

Advocates of easy money, under the leadership of the new Secretary of State, William Jennings Bryan, were violently opposed to the Aldrich plan. The Bryan people favored not only a decentralized system but a central board composed of government officials. This would have made the system entirely political.

Wilson, like Bryan, was bitterly critical of the domination of credit by Wall Street banks, although the new President regarded that control as a natural consequence of law and custom.

★

Good fortune had it that Carter Glass, a Congressman from Virginia, found himself in a strategic place in Congress when the controversy began. Glass was a believer in decentralized authority but also an opponent of the inflationary policies of the Bryanites. He had as an expert the very able H. Parker Willis of Columbia University.

Glass soon won the full confidence of Wilson. The outcome was a board composed neither of bankers nor of political officeholders—a board appointed by the President but for long terms. In short, it was designed as a supreme court of finance with a very large measure of independence. The system was also decentralized as a concession to Bryan.

That is essentially what we have now. Decentralization has proved to be a genuinely conservative influence and the central board can be just as independent as it chooses to be.

But there are new rationalizations for inflation now, unheard of in the days of Bryan. Most of these spring from the philosophy of the late Lord Keynes. They would, at every sign of faltering business, loosen the strings and spend money, borrowed if need be. This, it is clear, would be a perfect instrument for a political regime determined to stay in power by maintaining a perpetual boom. But to accomplish this it would be essential that the administration in power control the Federal Reserve Board.

★

A favorite plan to accomplish this which has been proposed would be to create a supereconomic council with several public officials as members. This supercouncil would dominate the Federal Reserve Board and destroy its independence. This pretentious plan would in essence be the old Bryan idea in modern dress. All past experience with this government and other governments since history began shows that no political government can be trusted with control over the savings of its people.

It is true that the supply of money is tight. That, however, is due to the shortage of savings for investment. In turn that shortage is due to the fact that high taxes are preventing people from saving as they might.

But inflation would merely aggravate this trouble and still further deplete the volume of savings. That is why, despite temporary shortage of capital for investment, Chairman Martin and his board are holding the line.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.