A QUESTION
OF AID
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Among the many activities in Washington supported by Americans with an interest in what government is doing, the American Enterprise Association occupies a role of unique usefulness. While any company, group or association—business, labor or professional—has a constitutional right to present its case to Congress or the administration and, while lobbying is not only a legal but a proper and indispensable activity, it is becoming more and more apparent that people in government, especially in Congress, need less to be told what to do than to be aided in understanding the problems they face. Their need for help increases as the problems of government become more complex and unwieldy.

The American Enterprise Association is not a propaganda agency, but is concerned with the dissemination of information. Every year it has prepared and distributes analyses of important bills before Congress. In these it presents, first, what the bill is intended to do; then it gives the arguments for the measure and the arguments against it. The member of Congress is therefore provided in capsule form material for an intelligent appraisal of something on which he may be expected to vote. He would be able to get this material in the normal channels of committee hearings only after expending a great deal of time and labor.

Members of Congress and committees are more and more asking the American Enterprise Association to prepare special reports for them. The most recent of these is a study of foreign aid and investment, prepared for the special Senate committee to study the foreign aid program.

Congress is facing a very considerable demand for the abolition of the foreign aid program, while the President and his advisers are calling for more and more. Besides, the members are getting more information, such as has been recently submitted by Sen. Ellender, about the waste and foolishness which accompanies our spending abroad.

The American Enterprise report makes no frontal attack on the present program of government aid. Rather, it considers the broad question of the relative advantages and disadvantages of grants from our government to governments abroad and, on the other hand, of private investments by American individuals and companies. It shows that there is no incompatibility between private investment and government gifts but, rather, that a close correlation between the two is best for the United States and best for the needy nations abroad.

Perhaps I am reading into the report something that its authors did not intend, but it seems to me, after reading it, that a very important bit of psychological insight seems to have been lacking in those who have in the past conceived and carried out government aid.

Outright gifts have been unable to buy the friendship of governments and people abroad for several reasons. Most important of these is the fact that a gift is, despite the copybook maxim, more likely to excite suspicion than to elicit gratitude. This is because over the centuries nations have been accustomed to putting self-interest first. Therefore, it is better to admit a desire to make a fair and legitimate profit from an investment than to seem to have nothing to gain at all.

When the bestowal of American dollars abroad is made either by government or private agencies for the purpose of providing a material return, not only to the United States but to the nation on the receiving line, a better basis of cooperation is established than that which exists between the giver and the receiver of a gift.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.