KEFAUVER AS KEFAUVER MADE HIM
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It may seem strange to discuss Estes Kefauver seriously after his silly statement about knocking the earth about and changing the seasons.
But as I said in a previous article, this man is no buffoon. He is a demagogue by conviction and calculation. His education was of the best, and he has arrived at a philosophy of government which has length, breadth and thickness. That philosophy conceives of a highly centralized Federal government not only regimenting business, labor and agriculture but, by its interference with agencies of communication and entertainment, shaping the thinking of its people. If this fits the definition of totalitarianism, then Kefauver himself is responsible.
*
The net of his expressions about "little" business indicates that he would fit all businesses into a Procrustean bed built by the government. The ones larger than the Kefauver prescription would be cut down by punitive taxes or court action, and the smaller ones would be built up by subsidies and the placing of government contracts. Taxation and defense spending would be used to achieve this objective, not for raising revenue and for defending the nation.
His idea of the government's control of labor was mirrored in his vote on May 25, 1946, for a bill providing that failure on the part of workers to return to their posts in a plant seized by the government would be punishable by fine or imprisonment or by drafting into the Army. It was Sen. Taft who killed this totalitarian labor-crushing measure.
The Kefauver votes have consistently been aimed at making the American farmer more and more subject to government control and subsidy.
But so far as the protection of the farmer and the businessman from foreign competition is concerned, Kefauver has thrown his lot with other countries. In 1955 when the trade agreements bill was before the Senate, Paul Douglas, the Senator from Illinois, offered a resolution to eliminate from the law the "peril point" provision which would permit the President to take steps to protect American interests seriously threatened by foreign imports. Kefauver was one of the nine Senators who supported Douglas.
Kefauver would certainly be a popular traveling ambassador abroad, should a miracle make him the next Vice-President. For he has consistently favored submerging American interests in a vague, cloudy world commonwealth. In 1949 and again in 1955 he argued in favor of a "democratic world government."
*
In line with this, he has favored the internationalism of the Chinese Communist government over the Nationalist government of Formosa. In January, 1955, the President sought a declaration of Congress giving him freedom to take such steps as might be necessary to deter the Red Chinese from their planned action against the offshore islands and Formosa. Kefauver offered a resolution which would have tied the President's hands. He would have served notice on Mao that the United States would not fight to defend those islands. Only 10 other Senators stood with him. Seventy-five supported the President.
Finally, in his report on the motion-picture industry which grew out of his long, meddling investigation of juvenile delinquency, he favored the shaping of motion-picture entertainment into an instrument for indoctrinating children with "social significance." His report said:
"The motion-picture people must assume the responsibility of helping young children form opinions and attitudes that will best help them to meet the problems of living in our complex society."
*
And for that purpose people should be employed by the producers to incorporate social and, presumably, economic and political doctrines in the films. For many years, the motion-picture industry, through Will Hays and later Eric Johnston, has sought to keep the films free of propaganda and to keep to the line of clean entertainment. Kefauver would presumably have them teach whatever he considers to be good doctrine. This is essentially a totalitarian idea.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.