HUMPHREY'S PROTEST
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Secretary of the Treasury
George Humphrey's
protest against the extravagant spending recommended in the President's
budget recalls items dealing with him in two books published in 1956.
In one of those books there was a chapter entitled "The Education of
George Humphrey." The import of this was that this typical American businessman, benighted and devoted to his selfish interests as the book's author conceived all businessmen to be, was, after a few months in the enlightened atmosphere of the Washington scene, "educated" concerning the need for spending, particularly for foreign aid.
The chapter not only revealed a naivete common to eggheads, i.e., that "all businessmen are alike," but a wholly erroneous notion that the Secretary of the Treasury is "typical" of anything except that legion of sound Americans who believe that they can spend their money with more wisdom than any bureaucracy and that riches are not created by spending.
*
In another book, a straight reporting job, "Eisenhower: The Inside Story," by Robert J. Donovan, the story is told of the battle in the administration over what policy to follow, in the slight recession in late 1953 and early 1954.
At the first sign of a falling off in economic activity, the spending school, headed by Harold Stassen, rushed in with a demand for a "crash" spending program. Even Vice-President Nixon seemed, according to the author, to favor this remedy. Secretary Humphrey objected and was supported by Economic Adviser Arthur Burns.
The Humphrey contention was that business conditions would turn for the better and that a hysterical spending spree would retard rather than help recovery. The President hesitated while the argument went on for weeks and months. Finally the signs of recovery appeared. The President's faith in his Secretary was justified and the crisis passed.
*
This story certainly indicates that Secretary Humphrey's "education" in Washington, whatever its nature, was not what Author No. 1 believed it to be. He was the same George Humphrey who, as a leader in the Cleveland business community, was a profoundly respected judge of the currents and tides of the American economy.
The Secretary's statement on the budget, which shared the headlines with the President's amazing proposals for spending, bears out that estimate of the man. To have his say as he did was not only an act of great courage but a mark of the obligation which the chief fiscal officer in the government owes to the taxpayers of the nation and in Congress.
For the President's budget creates an issue that transcends party and sectional differences.
A President who promised in 1952 to make strenuous efforts to return some of the functions of government from the Federal government to the States and local communities and to restore some of the tax sources which have been stolen by Congress to pay for them, and who brought about the creation of a commission to make plans for that purpose, has apparently changed his mind.
Instead of strengthening State and local responsibility this program, if accepted, would weaken it perhaps beyond all hope.
The Federal government will not only build our highways, our schools, add to the number of veterans' hospitals, but get into the causes and cure of juvenile delinquency, of dependency, and many other social responsibilities.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.