'FRIENDS'
OF IKE
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
No President in modern
times has had so few enemies as Dwight Eisenhower. And no one has suffered so much at the hands of his overzealous friends.
Except for his snubbing of Sen. McCarthy, the President seems to have no animus toward those of his party in Congress who oppose him. And he has asserted over and over that it is not his intention to attempt to purge recalcitrants.
It is also true that his so-called "new" or "modern" Republicanism, as he has attempted from time to time to define it, is mostly a matter of semantics. The displeasure over his budget, except for the school program, is largely a matter of the amount asked for, rather than new departures in policy.
*
But here he is, in the first few months after his smashing victory in November, with only a handful of Republicans in Congress attempting to defend him and with only the Vice-President and his Cabinet outside to carry his flag. It is, indeed, a pretty pass when a Republican President has only Sens. Javits; Case and Cooper to defend him against a Democratic onslaught.
The friends who have temporarily undone him are not rascals, as were those of the hapless Grant. They are personally without guile or guilt. They are simply bumbling busybodies, ambitious meddlers, and hopelessly amateurish politicians.
The trouble began when the President began to talk about "modernizing" the Republican Party before he was clear in his head about what the phrase should mean. Thus he left it to enemies of the Republican Party to make their own interpretation.
Also, by suggesting that the party should enlist "forward-looking" people, he opened the way to his friends to begin naming people who were not "forward-looking." This was eagerly done by White House "insiders," in private, of course. The handiest targets were McCarthy, Jenner and Malone. Others were added, such as Goldwater, and even Bricker.
*
It remained for Paul Hoffman to amplify the list. In his article in Collier's on the very eve of the election, Hoffman named McCarthy, Jenner, Malone, Goldwater, Schoeppel, Dworshak and Welker. This article purported to interpret the deepest convictions of the President, and, according to some reports, received prepublication approval in the White House.
In any event, this sort of officious interpreting of the President's mind, with no rebuke from the man most directly concerned, angered not only the people named but thousands of other loyal Republicans. The result has been that a great part of the Eisenhower capacity to lead the party has vanished overnight.
*
Of course, Hoffman made it clear that he had nothing but admiration and affection for the departed Taft. But in the flush of the victory over Taft in 1952 he was privately talking about eliminating the Ohio Senator as well.
Strangely enough, Hoffman in his article asserted confidently that the influence of Sen. Knowland "may be counted on to sway his friends among the 'faint hope' group substantially." Knowland has given his answer to this himself recently by his independent action in the Senate.
And so, with every omen favorable to the building of a strong, united party capable of winning elections for years to come, the President finds himself unable not only to create a new party but to save the one of which he is the nominal head.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.