RAYMOND MOLEY:
Costly Expedients
Dodge Deficit Ceiling
Secretary of the Treasury Anderson, an unusually frank as well as able public official, in a recent statement before the Senate Finance Committee said:
"The Treasury operated very close to the 275 billion dollar limit during the fiscal year 1954, but to keep under the limit we had to adopt relatively costly expedients."
He went on to say that there was "somewhat more leeway" under the temporary ceiling rise to 281 billion dollars in fiscal 1955, but again in fiscal 1956 the Treasury was scraping the ceiling and that now the problem is more acute than ever.
*
An examination of what is meant by his expression "relatively costly expedients," along with an examination of what the real debt amounts to, indicates that the ceiling itself is an "expedient" and not a very substantial one.
There are certain practices (perhaps these are the "expedients") which have become habits—even well-developed techniques. They do not altogether deceive most members of Congress who are, however, content to have them used to beguile their constituents while they piously proclaim their allegiance to economy and to the debt limit they have established.
Here are four of these:
1—Two or three years ago the Department of Agriculture through the Commodity Credit Corp. used its great piles of unneeded food and fiber for which it paid out immense sums to farmers as collateral to get loans from private banks. Apparently this did not affect the debt limit. But it mortgaged government property to get more money to spend. In reality government debt was actually increased, however. It seems that this method was so cumbersome and costly that it has since been given up.
*
2—For a long time the Federal National Mortgage Association bought second mortgages, thereby helping the building trades in increasing amounts. When the narrowing margin of the debt limit became stifling, FNMA sold a part of these. Because of this, the agency did not need to make any budget request at all in fiscal 1957 (this is stated in the President's budget, Page 902).
It got the necessary money to operate from the buyers of the mortgages. But government property was used and the money was more expensive than it would have been had it been paid on government bonds. Here the "expedient" was indeed costly to the taxpayer, although the taxpayer was probably wholly unaware of it.
*
3—Federal agencies, wanting expensive buildings and other facilities which normally would have to be included in the budget, made agreements with private contractors to get what they wanted either by a rental plan or by payments on the installment plan. Then after payments over a period of years, property passed to the agency. In this way the increase in the national debt was avoided because the payments were stretched over a series of years. Even the White House automobiles are used on a rental basis. Certainly the dollars thus spent exceeded what would have been necessary under normal cash payments. Another "costly expedient."
★
4—Were such "expedients" as I have described not possible, or, as in the Defense Department, inapplicable, there was resort to "stretching the payments." During the first half of 1957 industries which had been getting "progress payments" on large armament orders discovered that the debtor government was suspending payments. This seriously disturbed these industries' financial situation and planning. The inevitable consequence was that in some industries production was slowed down, unemployment was created exactly at the time when business conditions began to tighten. The result was that the downward turn of the economy was accented.
These are some of the reasons why the debt limit is no sure check upon spending and is a deceptive measure of what we owe.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.