AID FOR
SCHOOLS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

From present indications, the administration's
plan for Federal aid to education must compete with
a flood of bills aimed at the same general purpose.
According to one competent reporter, more than
850 of the mass of bills pending before Congress
deal in some way with education. Of these about 80
major measures are pending in the House and 22
in the Senate. Many of these deal with Federal
aid for school construction, a lost cause this year.
Others deal with many forms of scholarship gifts
and loans.
The administration's plan has a number of
strange detours toward the immediate problem of
getting more science into the curriculum. A considerable
part of the billion-dollar, four-year plan is
for various forms of counseling for students and
teachers.
★
Presumably this would take the form of encouraging
students with special aptitudes to go further
into scientific subjects and end up as scientists and
engineers. Perhaps this would be a useful adjunct
to schooling for students who must now flounder
amid the potpourri offered by the schools.
The National Education Association is contemptuous
of the administration's plan. The NEA executive
secretary, William G. Carr, says that "a drop in the
bucket" is hardly the right way to characterize the
administration's plan. "But it doesn't fill the
bucket."
The idea of a bucket of money as the proper
means of meeting educational needs comes with
poor grace from professional educators—shall I
say "educationists"—who have permitted their
courses of study to wander further and further from
basic training in the fundamentals.
These educators have built up so many palatable
substitutes for specific courses in exact disciplines
that the result is a scattering of information imposed
upon minds unfitted for hard work and clear
reasoning. Consider, for example, turning out high
school graduates whose only mathematical training
has been in a smattering course in which arithmetic,
algebra and geometry are mixed.
Another example is in what happened to the old
courses in "civil government," in which the Constitution
was taught section by section and amendment
by amendment, as well as the framework of
the government in which the students were living.
The educationists considered this "too dry" and
there emerged a conglomeration called "social science"
or "community civics."
"General science," another jumbling, vied with
"appreciation" courses in music and art. Vocational
dabs were popular and recreation was not neglected
because there were courses in tap dancing and the
like.
Several buckets of money will not improve these
besugared trivia. Nor will Federal aid for school construction
be logical as long as the educators use the
plant they have on a part-time basis. Nor will Federal
aid in raising salaries be worthwhile as long as
teaching is a part-year job.
Instead of crying out for more money, educators
might well turn some criticism upon their own
handiwork.
★
One of the more worthy proposals before Congress
is to offer loans for college students instead of free
scholarships and to provide government insurance
for the loans. This would help any worthy
student, provide a reminder that he should ultimately
pay for his education, and also save some Federal
money, for there is a very high percentage of
repayment on students' loans.
But money alone will not supply what is needed.
School administrators, teachers, parents, and
school board members must put their school-
houses in order.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.