NEA'S NEW
PITCH
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The legislative recommendations of the National
Education Association
contain that powerful pressure
group's customary
plea for greater Federal
spending. But certain aspects of this 703,000-mem-
ber organization's recommendations deserve special
note.
In the first place, there is less concentration on
Federal school construction, although the $4,500,
000,000 program takes account of such a purpose.
Perhaps the successive beatings which that proposal
has received have
caused the NEA to adopt a strategy in which this
item will be hidden in an omnibus request.
*
It also is worthy of comment that these leaders in
education no more propose efficiently using the school
plant already existing by lengthening the period
during which teachers are employed in the calendar
year. Apparently, they still want teaching to remain a
part-time occupation.
One of the recommendations deserves special commendation. It is a plea for
the enactment of a bill which, in general terms,
provides "tax equality" for teachers. The executive
secretary of the NEA's legislative commission, James
L. McCaskill, said of this proposal:
"Teachers are spending money to become better
teachers. These educational expenses should be
deductible from gross taxable income. Most
teachers now cannot deduct these expenses, and
it is unjust."
I am not familiar with the rules of the Internal
Revenue people on this subject, but it seems to
me that, considering the many deductions possible
in other areas of our economy, expenses incurred
by a teacher in making herself or himself a
better and more highly paid teacher should certainly
have consideration.
This, I assume, should include summer school expenses, costs of professional
books, memberships in teachers' associations and the like.
However, the distressing feature of the course
taken by the NEA in pressing for what would
eventually be a Federally supported and controlled
school system is its downgrading of local responsibility for financing schools
through the general property tax.
I am enough of a believer in the ideas of Henry
George to realize that taxes on real property
should bear a heavier proportion of the burden of
State and local government. And I am perfectly
certain that the land is not bearing its proper
share of that burden now.
To relieve it further, by shifting the burden to the
more easily enacted Federal income tax, means a
further deterrent to enterprise and wealth-producing
activities. Progress and equity demand not
higher but lower income taxes on individuals and
corporations.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.