ADAMS IN PERSPECTIVE
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Three and a half centuries ago, the then Sir Francis Bacon, "the wisest, brightest, meanest of mankind," wrote this to Sir George Villiers, an intimate of James I:
"Kings and great princes, even the wisest of them, have had their friends, their favourites, their privadoes, in all ages; for they have their affections as well as other men. Of these they make several uses; sometimes to communicate and debate their thoughts with them, and to ripen their judgments thereby; sometimes to ease their cares by imparting them; and sometimes to interpose them between themselves and the envy or malice of their people; for kings cannot err; that must be discharged upon the shoulders of their ministers; and they who are nearest unto them must be content to bear the greatest load.
★
"Remember then what your true condition is: the king himself is above the reach of his people, but cannot be above their censures; and you are his shadow, if either he commit an error, and is loth to avow it, but excuses it upon his ministers, of which you are first in the eye; or you commit the fault or have willingly permitted it, and must suffer for it: and so perhaps you may be offered a sacrifice to appease the multitude."
That advice must be taken with the background of its time in mind. James I was one of the most autocratic of kings. Bacon, who rose high by following his advice, fell heavily later on. For Parliament was already beginning to assert its rights in those years.
The relations of Sherman Adams to his superior must be considered together with the President's military background. "Command" and "chain of command" are fundamentals in that background. Without political experience, the President quite sincerely sought a "chain of command." And Adams was the top link in the chain.
The President was and is uneasy in the political atmosphere into which the electorate put him. The prerogatives of Congress and the traditions of the Cabinet must always throw obstacles in the way of any "chain of command." Unfortunately, despite the pious maxims of political scientists, there is no orderly way of meeting political contacts. They cannot be delegated. The order of things differs now from the atmosphere of Britain in the 17th century.
I can illustrate this by an anecdote.
After the election in 1932 and before the inauguration of Franklin D. Roosevelt, I was in the diner of a train. A friendly voice greeted me:
"My name is Sam Rayburn. I met you at Warm Springs."
We were soon talking over the table. Suddenly, Sam leaned over and said in a guarded, confidential tone, "I hope we don't have any blank blank Rasputin in this administration."
Since I had been carrying burdens for candidate and, later, President-Elect Roosevelt, my mind said, "Who, me?"
I was satisfied soon that Rayburn had somebody else in mind as a potential mad monk. But the lesson was not missed.
A faithful equerry can be most useful for a busy man in high office. Perhaps he can serve better as a private citizen or by having an undistinguished official title. But to raise this service to the status of a high-sounding title an official relationship simply cannot succeed in modern political life. Perhaps that has been the bitterest lesson that the Adams episode can teach Presidents and all of us.
There simply cannot be a "buffer" between the Cabinet and the President, nor between the President and Congress. Efficiency must yield to the facts.
★
As far as Adams is concerned, he may be said to have tried valiantly, even faithfully to crash through the traditional rules of a republic. Strange, too, that he even tried to do so, since he was not without political experience. The point is not the indiscretion of Adams. The lesson is as I have stated it above.
The consequences, however, are serious. The interposition of a "chain of command" by the President has gravely injured the relations between the President and Congress and has disrupted the morale of his party. For the indiscretion can be forgiven by politicians. But long before Goldfine was in the news the seeds of unrest were sown with what may be results disastrous to the Republican Party in the coming election.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.