RAYMOND MOLEY:
GOP Senators Balked
on UAW Investigation
There has been assurance from Chairman McClellan that his committee will get around to an investigation of certain labor practices not yet touched by the committee. This the Republicans on the committee—notably Sens. Goldwater, Mundt and Curtis—have repeatedly demanded.
Unless this is done thoroughly and reasonably soon there would seem to be no alternative but that these Republicans walk out, just as Sen. McClellan and other Democrats refused to sit on the McCarthy committee a few years ago. The precedent is excellent.
*
The contention of these three Republicans is that there should be real exposure of the use of general union funds for political purposes, the attempted destruction of an employer’s business by illegal methods and the activities of Walter Reuther’s UAW in the Kohler and Perfect Circle plants. The Kohler strike is a tale of ruthless violence and coercion; the Perfect Circle strike in Indiana is a counterpart.
In the latter there was violence and ultimately the calling of the National Guard and a wave of public protest which resulted in a right-to-work law.
*
Last summer an investigation of the UAW was authorized by the committee and commenced by John McGovern, minority counsel. But of the committee’s 56 staff people, McGovern was assigned only two accountants with which to probe into Reuther’s mighty Michigan economic and political bastion, whereas 15 investigators were to have been assigned to the case.
After a time McGovern met with reporters in Detroit and indicated that he had made “astounding findings” in his investigation. This was too much for the Reuther organization. The big guns of the UAW zeroed in on McGovern, charging him with “lies and slander.” Reuther’s lieutenants made it clear to the committee, of which some members have and hope to hold potent UAW political aid, that if the committee didn’t stop McGovern “it will reflect on the committee and it can do a great deal of damage to our government.”
★
Some committee members have apparently heeded the rumblings of organized labor, articulated by UAW Secretary-Treasurer Emil Mazey, and want no hand in curbing the vast political activities of union leaders.
However, Sen. McClellan, who has built a national reputation by his attitude thus far, can ill-afford to have Republicans walk out of the committee room in protest should certain labor practices be disregarded.
Republicans on the committee expect hearings in February on two aspects of the Kohler strike—violence and secondary boycotts. Perhaps there will be more, and Reuther will be brought in for questioning some time later, but Republicans are not sure. They expect Minority Counsel McGovern to serve in the same capacity as Chief Counsel Robert Kennedy.
*
But their hopes and expectations may be dashed. Sens. Mundt, Goldwater and Curtis then will face a choice between participating in a farce of an investigation without adequate preparation and staff or walking out. This drastic move might well highlight what the committee has been unwilling to do and why.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.