FUNDS AND POLITICS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The Federal law prohibiting political activity by tax-exempt foundations is clear enough. But the application of this law by the Internal Revenue Service has been very difficult. Many instances are on the books in which exemption has been denied because of written material that has been deemed an attempt to influence legislation. But the line is hard to draw. However, I know of no case in which a large foundation has been questioned about promoting an individual's candidacy for office. For the most part, foundations take it for granted that such promotion is out of bounds.
Very shortly before announcing his candidacy for the Governorship of New York, Nelson Rockefeller acknowledged this by resigning the presidency of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund. But the chain of coincidence before that date will draw severe criticisms from his opposition.
★
The facts available are these:
In 1940 the five Rockefeller brothers—John D. III, David, Winthrop, Nelson and Laurance—set up what is called the Rockefeller Brothers Fund as "a co-operative means of charitable, educational and philanthropic endowment." The brothers and their sister Abby make contributions annually. Their father, John D. Rockefeller Jr., made a substantial grant in 1951. The 1957 report of the RBF lists an "unrestricted principal fund" of more than $54,000,000.
Until the last year or two, the grants were a run-of-the-mill sort to charitable, artistic and cultural institutions, schools and religious bodies. Several global improvement agencies were included. In 1956, however, there was set up a "special studies project" with something like $100,000. This was shortly after Nelson resigned from the Eisenhower administration. Nelson was chairman of this project, as well as president of the RFB, until the eve of his announcement for the Governorship last month.
In foundation jargon, the special studies project is described as "a review of our national purpose in terms of (these) problems and opportunities (facing this country) and to develop a framework of concepts and considerations within which policies and decisions can be made and priorities established to achieve our national objectives." The "framework" published so far is festooned with recommendations to the government to spend billions of taxpayers' dollars.
Dr. Henry A. Kissinger is staff director of the special studies project, and "panels" of prominent people appear with each report, presumably acting in an advisory capacity.
★
The timing of the publication of these reports is interesting. The first, on military "needs," was in January, 1958. The next, which covered all sorts of domestic matters such as public works, tax cuts, etc., came in April. The third was global, mostly on economic aid, etc., and appeared in May. The fourth, in June, also stressing money outlays, was on schools and education.
The recommendations of these reports would, according to Fortune magazine (June, 1958), increase nonmilitary government spending somewhere between 60% and 100% in 10 years. Prof. Seymour Harris of Harvard sympathetically hailed the proposal for full employment as "100% Keynesian," which means spending with deficits or no deficits.
A well-staffed department of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund saw that the reports received terrific publicity. Four hundred thousand copies of the military report and also of the education report were reportedly distributed. The New York press, with one notable exception, greeted the reports with fervent hosannas. Then, when the Rockefeller name was on every tongue, Nelson stepped out of the RBF and entered the race for Governor.
★
Immediately Republican district leaders in New York City made a mad rush to the Rockefeller bandwagon. No doubt they feel that the way to beat a big-money Democrat, Harriman, is to have a bigger-money name of their very own.
Meanwhile, Leonard Hall, who has the distinction of being the only Republican national chairman to win two Presidential elections since Mark Hanna, is desperately trying to win over Rockefeller, with scanty money for publicity and no specific endorsement from the man in the White House who was elected in those two campaigns.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.