It is a matter of interest historically that the long arm of the late Harry Hopkins has now placed before the voters of New York a narrow choice for Governor—a choice which may leave many voters inert and absent on election day.
Hopkins, who hated capitalism, loved to enjoy the company and entertainment of sons of departed capitalists. Some of these companions of his off hours, through the Hopkins influence, went on to glory. Prominent among them were the late Edward R. Stettinius Jr., who ended up as Secretary of State, and Averell Harriman, who occupied a long list of elevated offices.
There were others, including Nelson Rockefeller, who filled a number of lesser posts beginning in 1930.
There is very little to distinguish the political views of the two candidates, Harriman and Rockefeller. Both are pronounced “liberals,” favoring more Federal spending at home and abroad, more deference to the great power of labor union leaders, and more Federal control of everything. In fact, Harriman was one of the first who suggested that Rockefeller would be a good Republican candidate for Governor.
As one liberal remarked, “We can’t lose.”
Another interesting fact about the candidates is that while Rockefeller, the Republican, was the favored candidate of the present Democratic Governor, the Democrats nominated for U.S. Senator Frank S. Hogan, who was former Republican Gov. Dewey’s choice to succeed himself as District Attorney. The Californians have their curious cross-filing. New Yorkers have cross-fertilization.
★
It is such amusing quirks in the game of politics that give taxpayers at least a laugh for their money.
Another aspect, not so amusing, was the fact that Republicans—mobilized in a great hurrah promoted by what Thomas E. Dewey called the “station-wagon set,” mainly in Westchester County—did another “Willie blitz” for Rockefeller. They trampled upon the legitimate aspirations of Leonard Hall, who has probably done more for the Republican Party in New York and the nation than any political leader of his time.
★
On the Democratic side, the bosses of the Democratic Party crushed the legitimate aspirations of James A. Farley, who certainly in the past did more for the Democratic Party in New York and the nation than any other living political leader.
In this ruthless business of politics, the past is past. Alben Barkley’s expression for political ingratiation was “what have you done for me—lately?”
The Hogan nomination was put over by Tammany Leader Carmine G. De Sapio over the opposition of Gov. Harriman and Mayor Wagner of New York, who were anxious to appease the splinter liberal party. I am not doing De Sapio an injustice in pointing out that the removal of Hogan from his present post as New York’s District Attorney will be comforting and useful to Tammany. The office itself is a rich plum with a host of appointees. Also, the presence of an able and incorruptible District Attorney is disquieting to any Tammany regime. Nobody knows what Hogan’s views are on any national issue, but Tammany is not concerned with issues. It is interested in spoils and in being let alone.
★
In the Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate, Rep. Kenneth Keating, the voters have a man not well known downstate, but one who, in his career in the House, has a fairly consistent record—supporting Eisenhower policies—whenever those policies were clear. As Senator he would be far less “liberal” than his colleague Javits, but considerably to the left of a conservative such as Sen. John W. Bricker.
With the shifting of population in the State, the election will be determined by the immense vote of New York City. And that is decidedly a Democratic vote.