RAYMOND MOLEY:
Analysis of the Bill
on Unemployment
In the battle over providing additional unemployment compensation for those who have exhausted their payments during the current recession, the issue was sharply drawn between those who would move the Federal government in with indiscriminate handouts and those who would keep the system as it is under State laws and administration. The resulting bill, which the President has now signed, certainly disappointed the Federalists, although some extreme conservatives believed that nothing at all was needed. To the former, compensation was just another vote-buying gadget; to the latter, an unneeded and unwarranted invasion of State authority.
★
Means Committee revealed that in general State Treasuries are in better shape than the U.S. Treasury. It was also shown that the States' unemployment compensation trust funds, with two or three exceptions, are amply adequate to pay for unemployment compensation extension if the States consider it desirable. In addition, States whose unemployment compensation funds fall below a certain level have recourse to loans from the so-called Reed Fund.
The conservative coalition in the House managed to put through an amendment which limited the beneficiaries to those who have exhausted previous compensation. They would receive benefits for half the time they had already received them. Other amendments made the Federal money repayable and made the program optional in order to permit each State to take it or leave it.
★
The extent to which those favoring big Federal aid would go is shown by the amendments to the bill which were unsuccessfully pressed by Sen. John Kennedy. This series of amendments once more indicates the real philosophy of the junior Senator from Massachusetts—a philosophy completely misunderstood by those who believe him to be a "moderate liberal." There was nothing very "moderate" about proposing to impose complete Federal standards on the terms of compensation; to advance Federal funds for a 16-week extension in all States, the advances to be forgiven to those States which accepted Federal standards or had a low unemployment compensation fund; and to advance Federal repayable funds for 16 weeks of additional benefits to all who have exhausted their present benefits. All these amendments were decisively beaten in Senate votes.
The House Ways and
This is the bill that was piloted by Sen. Byrd through the Senate Finance Committee and the Senate, without amendments, to an ultimate 80-0 vote.
The AFL-CIO News had a banner headline later which deeply deplored the failure of the efforts of "the bipartisan liberal fight led by Sens. Kennedy, Douglas, Javits and others."
In this case the bipartisan coalition on the other side won. And its victory, according to one southern member of Congress, is the result of the first real working coalition of conservatives since President Eisenhower came into office. It is strange that conservatives found more common ground in the Truman days than in recent years but that is a fact.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.