Recent samples of businessmen's opinions on the desirability of tax reduction in this session of Congress reveal an amazing variety. This can be interpreted only as an indication that each man is thinking about his own business when he approaches the subject. Some, like certain automobile manufacturers, apparently think in terms of cutting excise taxes on their product. Some bankers are thinking of relief for investors — by cutting taxes on larger incomes. Henry Kaiser, who did well during the period of big government spending and inflation, is apparently for more spending and less revenue.

Another group of manufacturers are thinking about the unlikely prospect of a periodical reduction of the corporation income tax. Most small businesses, which are heavily handicapped in becoming larger businesses, want the restrictions on growth removed. An outstanding opponent of any cuts at all is Ralph Cordiner of General Electric, who says that tax cuts "should be resisted" at this time. This may well be because Cordiner is one businessman who has, in speech after speech, pointed out the necessity that businessmen generally consider the importance of political activity. In other words, he is a man who sharply understands political trends and the political climate in which business has to operate in the many areas in which the political arms of the union are most powerful in electing or defeating members of Congress.

For when the subject of tax revision is considered, the real questions are what political considerations would prevail in this Congress and what would be decreed by politics in cutting taxes in an election year. Congress is not entirely controlled by, but is heavily impregnated by, the views of members who are obsessed by the economic fallacy that the way to end the recession is to lower the tax burden on small incomes and thus provide more "purchasing power." It hardly needs to be demonstrated that the reduction of taxes on a few million small incomes would not necessarily mean that the amount saved would be rushed into buying. A lot of it would pass unnoticed because withholding taxes come in small bites over the year. Many people would do what they are doing now: save their money. Altogether, the amount added to purchasing power would be relatively small in an economy like ours.

Another consideration is involved. Almost certainly, a tax cut for "the little fellow" would take the form of raising exemptions, which would release a great many from all responsibility of paying Federal income taxes. The plain lesson of experience is that once the reminder of direct taxes is removed from small incomes, it will never be restored except in war or other grave emergency. That would mean that such "little fellows" would be indifferent to government spending because "somebody else is paying for it." It does little to remind them that they will pay dearly for government deficits through inflation, which is the most devastating of all indirect taxes. But tax cuts on small incomes are, regrettably, wonderful vote bait. And vote bait is what most candidates are concerned with this year.

Fortunately, the President and his Secretary of the Treasury, close as they are to prevailing Congressional opinion, believe it best to drop all tax cutting or revision until a more propitious time. Also, since they are confronted with huge deficits, they are keenly alive to the perils of another round of inflation. The one sure protection against political tax cutting is no tax revision this year. It is better to bear the present burdens than to fly to others that can be infinitely worse. The lack of understanding of this political climate in Congress by some of the businessmen who want tax cuts now reveals once more the need that business become a bit more sophisticated in political affairs. For politics is a dominant factor in business calculations, or ought to be.