The California Democratic platform adopted at the convention in August and apparently dictated by the union bosses, who seem to have their way with the party, remained for some time a sort of mystery. For some time no one seemed to be giving it any public attention except Republicans. And then it appeared only in fragments.

Before I came to California I tried to get it but all that I had was a series of excerpts from, of all places, a student at Harvard. So it was when I arrived here more than a week ago.

But finally after considerable needling in the press it has been made available in printed form. It is apparently free to Democrats but two bits is the price for Republicans. It is worth that not only for Californians but for citizens in the 25 other States in which this article will be printed. For it is a portent of what may well be in store over the nation if the national bosses who created it have their way.

It is long and repetitious but a few points can be summarized in my space. Outstanding in it is a provision which mirrors the tactics of Walter Reuther in the long and violent Kohler strike. It says that legislation should be enacted providing that it is against public policy for State and county agencies to purchase materials from producers "charged with unfair labor practices or against whom a strike is being conducted by a bona fide labor union." No mention is made of who may make such a charge. Also it would boycott producers against whom a strike might be called merely to bring coercive force in bargaining.

The terrific economic sanction of this against firms dealing with government can well be imagined. Government thus becomes a party in every labor dispute on the side of the union.

The provisions of the platform concerning taxation also strike at the heart of California's economy. It is provided that the sales tax be lowered and "eventually" abolished. To make up for the enormous revenue thus canceled, State income taxes and corporate levies should be raised.

This provision brings to light a curious ambiguity in the platform and in the position of the candidates running on it. There is on the ballot this fall something called Proposition 17. This would specifically reduce the present sales tax from 3% to 2% and would raise income taxes from the present range of 1% to 6% to a range of from .5% to 46%.

This proposition was sponsored by leaders of the AFL who hoped thus to divert attention from Proposition 18 providing for right to work. But while the Democratic platform opposed this proposition it is clear that it embodies the same determination to gain votes by shifting the burden from the sales tax to confiscatory taxes on incomes and corporations.

The threat thus presented to the economic growth of the State and the very vitals of its finances becomes still more clear when it is considered that the platform advocates increased spending all along the line: increased pensions, unemployment insurance, Socialized medicine, and all of the rest of the proposals that have been agitated in the State for years.