DICTATORSHIP IN MICHIGAN
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
To most of us the expression "Government by
all the people" is just a phrase useful in patriotic
speeches and an easy blind for demagogues. But it
has a vital, deeply embedded truth which many of
us are loath to recognize. Nothing so illustrates its
validity so much as the innumerable examples in
history of the corroding effect upon economic life
produced by government by a class or political machine dominated by an oligarchy or a small but potent minority.
Perhaps leaders of the British Labor Party would
deny that the government that they conducted from
1945 to 1951 was in fact a minority affair. But they
cannot deny that its basic nature was a dictatorship
by the trades unions and the so-called intellectuals
in the party. The facts clearly show that its tinkering with the economic
system and its threats to the British economy paralyzed initiative and frustrated recovery from the
war.
*
Michigan has had what is substantially a UAW
government for some years. Time and again
candidates backed by the Reuther machine have
swept the State. Practically all elective State offices
are filled by people who owe their election to UAW
support. This powerful machine, heavily financed
by union funds and incredibly active on a year-
round basis, has not only elected its man, Gov. Williams, over and over, but
has now penetrated into counties and cities.
It has been obvious, because of the repressive
character of Michigan's taxation and the many embarrassments suffered by
private business, not only that industry is draining
out of the State but that new business prefers to go
elsewhere—to Ohio or to Indiana, where there is no
union-in-politics dictation. It also has been evident
that the vast political designs of Reuther are not
limited to this one State but are stretching far over
the nation. For example, the UAW made a substantial
contribution to the Hell's Canyon Association,
whose purpose was to build a great Federal dam
on the Snake River to provide a source of
"cheap" power and draw industry from the Midwest, including Michigan.
*
Some time ago Gov. Williams was forced to give
some attention to the receding tide of Michigan's
industry. His response was to set up a group of
what he called "economic ambassadors" to sing the
virtues of Michigan in other States and seek to
bring in more industry. The people selected by
Williams as such "ambassadors"—utilities people,
bankers, leaders of State educational institutions,
etc.—were unable to refuse since their ostensible
service would be to help the State and also because
a State government so controlled has great power
to make reprisals on the recalcitrant.
But there are plenty of small-business men, farmers
and others in Michigan who are able to defy the
Governor and the political machine behind him. Lawrence Love, a small manufacturer, recently inspired
a meeting of people who are unhappy about Michigan's economic and political bondage. This meeting,
held in Lansing, staged some plain talking
and created what is called the "Citizens' Alliance to
Build Michigan." Its program is to work for a "sensible" right-to-work law;
less extravagance in State government; revision of
the State tax structure, and counteraction against
union domination of politics.
Thus, while so much of Michigan's big business
continues to sit on its political hands, smaller business
and farmers are taking the aggressive course,
which is the only kind of opposition that people like
Williams and Reuther can understand and fear.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.