RAYMOND MOLEY:
Republican Platform
Responsibility of All
The sharp challenge directed at President Eisenhower by Richard Simpson, chairman of the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee, represents what many state and local leaders have been thinking for a long time. Rep. Simpson said in plain words that the President, rather than the party workers, has been "hibernating" between elections and that the President, as titular head of the party, might well take his own advice and spend much more time throughout the year in political activity.
When all things are considered, however, Rep. Simpson's request that the President "give us, and apply consistently, a statement of principles on which we can stand" needs some further consideration. The drawing up of a statement of party principles, Mr. Simpson might be reminded, is essentially a job to be done by the leaders of the party, among whom the congressman himself is a prominent member. Sen. Barry Goldwater has also made this suggestion to the President.
The President himself has stated several times what he conceives to be the articles of faith which should characterize the Republican Party. In a sentence, he expressed it only last week. He said that the party should be dedicated to the principles on which the nation and later the Republican Party were founded and should apply those ideas to the problems of today.
But, as anyone can see, this is a generality which lacks specific meaning that could provide a Republican candidate with something that would differentiate his views from those of his Democratic opponents.
The party, not the President, must face the battles of 1960 and beyond. Whatever the party's faith may be must be embedded in every candidate, and every candidate must be prepared to fight for it.
To be specific, I have suggested that there should be convened a meeting of the state chairmen, national committeemen and women, Republican governors and members of both houses of Congress.
These meetings should be briefed by memoranda drawn up by groups and individuals, not all of whom need be party officers or elected officials.
Then party leaders should get down to work on a specific and thought-provoking statement or platform. This should not be a job for a day or two. It should take a week or even more.
Then every year this meeting should be repeated to consider additions or amendments prompted by the issues that arise as time goes on.
Of all antiquated, incompetent party practices, that of writing a platform in the heat and confusion of a quadrennial national convention is the most ridiculous.
My suggestion has proof of its effectiveness in the annual conferences of the three major parties in Britain. There, after briefing, discussion and deliberation, the party creeds are formed. These are morally binding on all candidates for Parliament.
Also, since Parliamentary leaders among all the other party leaders participate in the conferences, this agreed-upon statement of party faith is morally binding upon the representatives of the parties in Parliament.
Never was such a method so needed in the Republican Party. For although in the days of such strong Presidents as T. R., Wilson, and F.D.R. parties were able to follow the leadership of the White House implicitly, the situation is quite different now.
President Eisenhower is in the fag end of his term. Also, he has, despite his great qualities, neither the inclination, the aptitude, the disposition, nor the experience needed for powerful party leadership.
It is possible to create a party creed which sharply differentiates it from its democratic-liberal opposition. This creed the party should make for itself. It will require some labor, but it is essential if the elephant is to overcome its afflictions.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.