Virginia Citizens' Group Tries
Unique Segregation Experiment
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
BILOXI, Miss. — Unlike Charlottes-
ville and Norfolk, where private schools
already existed to care for white chil-
dren whose parents were unwilling to
send them to integrated schools, Front
Royal in Warren County, Va., had no
such facilities.
Front Royal also had no Negro high
school and was sending its 22 Negro
students of high school grade to nearby
communities for their education.
High School Closed
However, it was building a new Negro
high school last September when Judge
John Faul ordered the county school
board to open on an integrated basis.
Thereupon, the all-white high school
was closed. An appeal to Judge Paul
recently, to create a stay until next Sep-
tember, was refused.
After the September closing, leading
citizens of Front Royal formed what is
called the Warren County Educational
Foundation to provide instruction for
the 780 white high school students.
This foundation is a plan which, so
far as I know, is unique to continue edu-
cation on a segregated basis.
Voluntary Contributions
The citizens’ committee which creat-
ed it solicited subscriptions at a small
fee from local people and also received
contributions from sympathetic people
in other counties and states. (The In-
ternal Revenue service has not yet
ruled on the tax deductibility of these
contributions.)
Support for the foundation became a
very popular issue with the white peo-
ple of the community. Local 371 of the
Textile Workers’ Union of America
fully co-operated with the movement. It
obtained voluntary pledges from its
members to have weekly contributions
checked off in the Viscose Corp. plant
where they were employed.
High school students donated their
baby-sitting money. The labor union do-
nated its hall for high-school athletics.
The Episcopal, Methodist and Baptist
churches lent their parish houses for
classes. Twenty-six of the 42 teachers
in the closed Warren County High
School resigned to serve the founda-
tion’s private classes.
Decision Unchanged
A final plea to Chief Judge Simon E.
Sobeloff of the U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals failed to change Judge Paul’s
decision, and the high school was or-
dered to be opened on an integrated
basis on Wednesday, Feb. 18. An at-
tendance of something more than 25
students was expected.
The regular teachers from the old
school who were expected to be present
numbered about 13, mostly home eco-
nomics and manual training instructors
partly paid by federal funds.
The foundation has taken a poll of
parents which indicated 591 to 5 were in
favor of continuing the private classes.
It will be months before the final re-
sult of this experiment can be appraised,
but up to now public opinion has clear-
ly shown its resistance to the federal
court’s interpretation of the Constitu-
tion.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.