RAYMOND MOLEY:
Union Local Supports Private
Segregated School in Virginia
When a citizens' committee in Front Royal, Warren County, Va., established a foundation to support a private school to maintain a segregated school, after federal court orders to integrate the county high school, it received most active and generous support from the members of Local 371 of the Textile Workers Union of America.
A very important inference can be drawn from this concerning the weakest spot in the drive of the big international unions to create a dominant labor political machine in the congressional districts and communities over the nation.
★
For when the political atmosphere in a community is not hostile to labor, union members may in political decisions put the community above the dictates of the national and international leaders of the union.
Despite the influence of national pressure groups and organizations, the American community is basic in politics. Union members live side by side with businessmen and other non-union citizens.
Their children mingle in the schools, and they have a common interest in community affairs. In all matters not related to their problems in collective bargaining, they are at one with the other citizens.
This is conditioned, as I have already noted, by the attitude of the community generally. If it is anti-union, the union will return the sentiment in kind and a split develops which is not good for the community or its citizenry generally.
★
The experience in Front Royal gives emphasis to this principle. The leadership in Local 371 was chartered in 1940. At first, there were no Negroes in the union, but gradually the color line was abandoned.
By 1948 there were 250 Negroes in Local 371's membership. By 1952 there were two Negroes on its executive board. In 1956 the union officially declared that it would not sponsor a community baseball team unless Negroes were permitted to play. Then two Negroes were taken on the team, and wherever they played in the South the Negroes were served in restaurants on an integrated basis.
Recently when Oliver Hill, the NAACP lawyer in Richmond, served notice that he intended to fight in the courts for integration in Warren County, Mr. Leadman, business manager of Local 371, went to Mr. Hill and begged him not to do so.
The argument was that the good feeling between the races, so laboriously built up, would be destroyed. But Mr. Hill was immovable, and when the court fight went on to the point at which a citizens' committee was formed to set up a private school for white children, Mr. Leadman offered full co-operation.
The foundation created to support the private school needed money, and the union arranged with the employer, the Viscose Co., to check off weekly contributions. There is officially no union shop at Viscose because of Virginia's right-to-work law, but practically all of the 1,969 employees are members of the union. Relations have been so good that there has never been a strike at Front Royal.
★
Mayor Clarence Gregory of Front Royal says of the help given by the union to the foundation that "it is simply not possible to give enough credit to the leaders and members of Local 371 for the tremendous aid they have been in the whole enterprise."
Whatever the attitude of the leaders of the national unions may be toward civil rights, in this instance the union decided that its first loyalty was to the community in which it lived.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.