Russian-Made School Equipment
Has No Legitimate Place in U.S.
To illustrate how the Soviet government finds no method too small to penetrate the United States with "proof" of its excellence, let us note how it plans to place its equipment in our schools. This will also illustrate how an innocent suggestion of the President can be turned to Soviet advantage.
An enterprising American importer last year was attracted by Russian school equipment for sale to the United States at a ridiculously low price. On investigation, it was found to be well made and suitable for use here. Hence, a number of purchase orders were placed.
★
The federal grant-in-aid program opened the way for sales to the government in Washington. The Soviet government, aware of this opening for large-scale orders, speeded the manufacture of 96 items, mass produced at a price averaging one-fifth that of comparable equipment produced by American companies.
There were immediate protests from American equipment companies, and Sen. Styles Bridges introduced an amendment to a supplemental appropriations bill to provide that none of the money for school equipment under the federal grant-in-aid program should be available "for the purchase of science, mathematics and modern language teaching facilities which are sold, manufactured or otherwise identified as originating in Communist or Communist-dominated countries."
Sens. Bridges and Keating supported this prohibition on the ground that the Soviet government ob-
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
viously was making this offer for sale as a propaganda effort. It would clearly bring Russian equipment before the eyes of American teachers and pupils, thus displaying the triumph of Soviet enterprise over American.
However, Sen. Bridges withdrew the amendment to provide for time for hearings, which were held before the Subcommittee on Health, Education and Welfare.
★
Despite the arguments for such a bar on Russian equipment by senators and American companies, some were dubious about the extent to which such sales would be effective propaganda. Sens. Gore and Fulbright had that view.
Letters were sent to the subcommittee by the Departments of State, Commerce, and Health, Education and Welfare which made three points: First, that such a federal prohibition would not stop the purchase of such supplies by state and local governments; second, that the propaganda effect would be negligible; and finally, that since President Eisenhower had expressed to Khrushchev his sympathy for "expanded" trade between the United States and Russia such a prohibition would be in violation of American policy.
★
Sen. Bridges has now decided to incorporate his idea in the appropriations Bill for the Department of Health, Education and Welfare which the Senate has passed and which goes to conference. The sponsors hope that the House conferees will agree to the provision.
However, since this does not affect purchases by local and state authorities, American manufacturers hope that those school boards will be alert to the importance of the problem and enact similar prohibitions.
A good summary of the case for such a prohibition was made by Duane Thorin, a psychological expert employed by the U.S. Navy:
"Prompt action should be taken to preclude the purchase of Soviet-made teaching apparatus with federal funds, especially if such equipment is destined for use in secondary schools. Failure to take such action will have at least a twofold effect detrimental to the national interests:
"1—The undercutting of private American industrial enterprises by unethical foreign competition; in this instance by an industry under absolute control of an international conspiracy dedicated to the destruction of all private property and private enterprise.
"2—A certain, if somewhat indefinite, degree of adverse influence especially on young students' minds, lessening their confidence in the American system of free enterprise and, in turn, the economic and governmental principles of the nation.
"Both of the potential consequences listed above are recognizable as specific intermediate goals of the Soviet Union in its continuing quest for world dominion. Furthermore, the Communists will be able to exploit such an occurrence for world-wide propaganda favorable to themselves."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.