Housing Bills Reveal Hypocrisy
of 'Liberals' Who Sponsor Them
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The monstrous hypocrisy of the lib-
eral groups now in control of Congress
could not be better illustrated than in
the omnibus housing bill before the
House and the one passed by the Sen-
ate in February.
These breast-beating friends of the
"little fellow" propose, as they have
enacted in the past, a much bigger
windfall for rich investors than the
alleged benefits they offer in subsidies
to the people they claim to help by
cheap housing.
GOP Has Opportunity
Speeches by three members of the
House, taking less than 10 minutes of
the time of the House on March 3 and
9, have opened an issue which, if
seized by the President, the Vice-Presi-
dent and the Republican Party, could
strip the mask from their political en-
emies who are trying to win the 1960
election with taxpayers' dollars.
They could also do exactly what they
proclaim they want to do-knock the
"party of the rich" label from the
Republican Party. It is one of the hot-
test but least understood social and
economic issues of our time.
The three congressmen who opened
this lid are men who by ability and sin-
cerity have won the respect of every
right-thinking individual in their dis-
tricts. One is a Democrat; the others,
Republican. They are Gordon L. Mc-
Donough of California, A. Sydney Her-
long Jr. of Florida and Bruce R. Alger
of Texas.
Certain public housing bonds, issued
by local housing agencies, represent
local obligations only. They have back
of them the full faith and credit of the
United States. This federal backing
gives them their gilt-edged value.
Boon to Wealthy
The federal government gives them a
very exclusive tax-exempt basis, which
makes them very attractive to people
with large incomes. They are really
rich men's investments. They pay a
little less than regular U.S. government
bonds-around 3%, depending upon the
year they are issued.
In the omnibus housing bill passed
by the House committee, about $2.6
billion is authorized, and over their
40-year life they will generate $1.9 bil-
lion in interest. But to a person of large
means, who pays 50% or more in in-
come taxes, the tax advantage will be
very large indeed.
As an example of the windfall, Mr.
Herlong cited an issue acquired by a
large bank to be sold to its clients.
While the interest rate on these would
be 3.4%, the people who get them, pro-
vided they have incomes of from $50,-
000 to $100,000 a year, will realize from
14% to 26% on their investment. And
it should be noted that this range of
income is exceeded by a great many
people in this country.
These bonds go into the market in
competition with regular U.S. bonds,
which pay only a little more in inter-
est and which the Treasury is having
plenty of trouble in selling. The reluc-
tance of investors must compel the
Treasury to pay higher and higher in-
terest on its bonds. This will be an item
in the budget which must be paid every
year for all those years.
The impact, therefore, will fall on
all taxpayers, including the "little fel-
lows" that the liberals claim they love
so much. Thus, the liberals behind
this housing bill, just like those who
have voted over and over for similar
bills, are really soaking the poor to
enrich the rich.
Old Deception
This deception has been going on for
a long time, and there have been strenu-
ous protests against it. In 1952, the
chairman of the Federal Reserve Board,
W. M. Martin Jr., said:
"Not only do such issues (tax-free
housing bonds) absorb some of the
funds which would otherwise supply a
market for government bonds or for
mortgages generated by new private
construction, but they afford an op-
portunity for wealthy individuals and
corporations to reduce legally their in-
come tax payments in a period when
it is essential that tax revenues be as
large as possible."
Some of the mayors who are rushing
to Washington to support these liberal
housing bills should realize also that
these tax-exempt housing bonds go into
competition with their own municipal
bonds and compel them to pay more
and more interest to get money for
their own communities. All they can
pledge for those municipals is their own
faith and credit. The housing bonds
have Uncle Sam's endorsement.
It is time that this hoax on the
"little fellow" be thoroughly aired.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.