The Hawaiian Primaries: Racial
Groupings and Labor's Power
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Never in American history has a political complex been presented similar to that which faces the new state of Hawaii. The primaries for the first state election will be held next Saturday, and the election takes place a month later.
Idealists may rhapsodize about how the dream of democracy is fulfilled because this will prove that there can be a commonwealth in which any man may aspire, regardless of race, color or creed, to any office in the nation. Practical considerations create a much more realistic picture.
★
To begin with, it should be noted that the population, and to a degree the voting strength, is distributed according to racial and national origins among 35% Japanese, 25% Caucasian, 6% Chinese, 18% native Hawaiians, 12% Filipinos, and others, including Portuguese, 4%. This pretty well disposes of Kipling's thought that "never the twain shall meet."
The Japanese are not expected to vote as a bloc, although most of them are vitally alive to politics. They have divisions, just as they have in Japan, but probably a majority will vote Democratic.
The white Caucasians, called Haoles, have a past which is not politically favorable to their domination now. There was in
that past plenty of exploitation, from the time when the early traders and whalers were active on the islands.
Nor were the white possessors of wealth and landed power free from heedless neglect of the less fortunate who worked for them. This sort of thing is not notable now, but the memory of past mistakes lingers and can be exploited by politicians.
The native Hawaiians are fearful that their position economically will be more and more circumscribed. They are disgruntled over the fact that so many of them have been displaced by workers of Asiatic origins since the Civil Service Act was passed and that this discrimination has been accentuated since the Japanese gained numerical supremacy.
★
The Chinese, as one observer has noted, "lament a bygone time when they held the balance of power in the political affairs of the territory." Their allegiance, small now, is pretty well scattered politically.
The Filipinos make up a major portion of the strength of the powerful, perhaps politically dominant, International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union bossed by Jack Hall, a Harry Bridges lieutenant.
The ILWU, because of this confused racial pattern, plus the weakness of the two major party organizations, might well hold the balance of power. An estimated 20,000 membership is formidable, since it will have plenty of money and workers to support its chosen candidates.
The Republican organization has not been in good shape in the past few years. However, a prominent and able young businessman, Ben Dillingham, has taken its leadership and is mobilizing his forces for the election.
★
The contests for the two U.S. senatorships and one House membership are of lesser importance to the state than the choice of governor. There the two candidates are unopposed in the primary. The present governor, William Quinn, appointed to his post by President Eisenhower, is the Republican candidate, while John A. Burns, the elected delegate from the territory to Congress, is on the Democratic ticket.
The stake in this contest is very important, since the newly elected governor will appoint more than 2,000 officers in the new state, including judges. It is in the election of Burns that the ILWU is interested. For it is concerned vitally with the future government of this new state.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.