British Attacks on U.S. Merchant
Marine Policies Strain Relations
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In the course of recent years we have
been told repeatedly that attacks upon
British policies by some Americans are
bad because they strain the bonds that
should exist between the two great powers.
Warnings against such ill-considered
flourishing of the American Flag are
justifiable because with Britain we must
provide most of the cement that holds
the western world tight against communism.
Mutual Restraint Beneficial
Restraint, however, should be observed
by both sides. And it would be a happy
circumstance if this sort of restraint
were adopted by Robert D. Ropner,
president of the British Chamber of
Shipping. I have mentioned Mr.
Ropner's outbursts against American
shipping interests and policies before in
these columns.
Recently a British publication, Syren
and Shipping, in commenting on a
speech by Mr. Ropner, chose the term
"unholy trinity" to fit his description of
three factors which were making British
life arduous on the high seas. In another
speech Mr. Ropner pinpointed these
three "deadly enemies"—all of which
are essential to the maritime security of
the United States.
Mr. Ropner's three prime targets are
the American 50-50 law, which requires
half of our foreign-aid cargoes to be
carried in American bottoms; the provision
of subsidies from the government for the
American Merchant Marine, and the
registration of American-controlled
tankers and other bulk carriers under
foreign flags.
The 50-50 law was passed by Congress
to provide American ships with some of
the business of carrying out foreign aid.
It should be made plain that our small
U.S.-Flag tramp fleet is completely
dependent in these times upon aid cargoes,
for it has no subsidy. These ships are
essential to security, for if war comes they
will carry supplies to our hungry allies,
including Britain.
Could Increase Total
Under the terms of Public Resolution
17 it was required that 100% of cargoes
financed by our Import-Export Bank
should be carried in American ships. Only
administrative modification reduced this
proportion to 50%, and there are many
voices in Congress that might be raised
to make 100% mandatory.
In the face of agitation and even
lobbying by foreign shipping interests,
Congress might well justify denying
foreign-aid cargoes to vessels flying the
ensigns of countries, like Britain, that
trade with Communist China and North
Korea. It was worth noting that more
than 100 British-flag ships have been
chartered to Communist China in the
last few years.
The complaint about our government
subsidies is ridiculous in light of the fact
that aid to the Merchant Marine has been
practice common to all the maritime
countries in one way or another. Were it
not for the U.S. subsidies, formalized at
the urgent recommendation of President
Roosevelt, we would exist at the mercy of
foreign shipping. In wartime such
dependence would be fatal.
U.S. Ships Finest
It is realized abroad, although it is not
well known here, that among the most
modern and finest cargo ships in the
world are those under American control
and registered under what Mr. Ropner
and others persist in calling "flags of
convenience."
Documented in small, friendly countries
under what are properly termed "flags of
necessity," these big tankers and ore
carriers—ineligible for subsidy under our
Flag—are an integral part of our
mobilization requirements.
Foreign interests have gone so far as to
calculate the dollars that would have gone
to European maritime powers if such
ships had never been built and if, instead,
their trade had been served by an
equivalent European fleet. The significance
of this calculation is not in a display of
covetousness but in the obvious wishful
thinking that these American-controlled
ships should not exist.
Established Policies
In international conferences on shipping,
American representatives have stood firm
on the American position that these "deadly
enemies" are the firmly established policies
of the United States government—that we
consider them matters of domestic concern.
While the United States is not required
to defend its generous attitude toward
Western Europe, it seems to be necessary
to point out that our strength on the sea
is vital not just to us but to all nations
pledged to defend against Communist
aggression. It would be well for British,
and also for Norwegian, shipping interests
to get this clearly in mind.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.