BIRMINGHAM, Eng.—
The headlines in the British election campaign featured what Macmillan, Gaitskell and other party leaders were saying and dope stories based on polls and other omens. But the real warriors responsible for victory or defeat are the house-to-house workers in the local areas. The workers, professional and volunteer, are directed by the constituency agents.
The equivalent of these agents, who are trained and general year-around workers, are exactly what America lacks and needs. For the business of maintaining party organization and getting out the vote is too serious to be done by casual amateurs. In the United States, only the AFL-CIO COPE has the equivalent of these agents. Unless the Republican Party can develop something like them, it can never hope for a real majority in Congress.
*
Up to 1924 in Britain, local lawyers served as agents during election campaigns. But in that year, a Miss Maxse in the Conservative Party promoted the system that now prevails. The ideal was a new profession of political managers, trained and certified.
After the Tory disaster in 1945, Lord Woolton, formerly a business executive, was made head of the Conservative Party, and his efforts greatly improved the agency system. The great gains of the party after that were due most of all to improved organizations in the constituencies. The failure of socialism gave workers something to talk about, but the relative equality of the voting strength of the parties made the real problem getting out the maximum party vote. Only those who are professed Conservatives or who are wavering are worked upon in a campaign. No time is wasted trying to convert dedicated Laborites.
*
The training of an agent is thorough. The beginner is first interviewed and selected by area agents who have 50 or more constituencies in their jurisdiction. Then there is six months of practical training under an experienced agent. The recruit then goes to the Swinton Conservative College in Yorkshire for a period of lectures. Then there is an intermediate examination. After that there is more practical training, and then again to Swinton for finishing. Then there is a final examination. If the trainee passes, he is “certified.” He usually proudly hangs his certificate in his office.
Actually and legally, the agent in a constituency is selected by the Conservative Constituency Assn., which is composed of local citizens. However, in practice the area agents and the London headquarters recruit agents and advise the local people. The constituency association must pay for and maintain the headquarters where the agent has his office, and party activity is conducted on a year-around basis. Over the months and years between general elections, the agent must promote all sorts of activities—the work of smaller local groups and committees, social affairs, drives, and public meetings with national party leaders. These serve to keep interest alive and also to raise money for the local and national party.
The Labor Party has much the same system of agents. Because its strength is more concentrated in industrial areas, it has only about 250 agents. The Conservatives have more than 600.
*
The system, however, is far from perfect. It is hard to get able men as agents because of the low salaries which, by American standards, are about what the less fortunate ministers of the gospel get. It is hard to keep agents in times like these with full employment and better pay in private business. They must be dedicated to the work of politics. Since the war, however, a considerable number of the agents have been recruited from among retired army and navy officers with years of active life ahead. They know how to organize and direct volunteers, upon whom the vitality of the party finally depends.
Americans might well scan this system. It is applicable to many of our counties and congressional districts.