Personal Gain From Public Funds
Wins Sanction of CCC 'Liberals'

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

If there were no gains for anyone except politicians from spending—profit paid in votes—it would not be difficult to call a halt. But there are big private profits as well.
The "liberals" while denouncing big business are creating some big businesses themselves, as I have shown in these articles in the case of housing and urban redevelopment and renewal.
We may well be creating, at the taxpayers' expense, another wealthy class—not so spectacular as that which flourished back at the turn of the century but just as lush.
A further example is the way in which our foreign and agricultural aid has been turned to the benefit of private profit.

Rep. L. H. Fountain of North Carolina, as chairman of the House Intergovernmental Relations Subcommittee, has been conducting a quiet investigation of the operations of the Commodity Credit Corp.
The CCC is a wholly government-owned corporation which handles billions of dollars' worth of agricultural products every year. It exports its products under several programs, including famine relief, direct sales to other government agencies for export and indirect sales through private companies.

In the latter case, the private purchaser may resell at a profit to another government agency for export or to another private company at a profit for shipment abroad.
This process of selling through private people or companies developed after the war, under the illusion that this might be more economical and thus save some taxpayers' money.
Recent hearings of the Fountain subcommittee have shown that about 18 million bales of cotton have been sold for export since Jan. 1, 1956, with a loss to the taxpayer of several hundred million dollars.
In this case of cotton, the transactions are complicated by differences in grading. The CCC classifies by what is called "universal standard." The trade classifies as it chooses.

Thus, a private exporter may buy cotton from the CCC at one price and later have it classified by CCC and receive a refund because of deterioration. He may then arrange to have it shipped overseas under one of the aid programs, file the necessary papers, and receive a check from a bank which is later reimbursed, plus carrying charges, by the CCC.
As the counsel of the subcommittee has said, the CCC is in effect financing the very same cotton which it previously sold.
Exporters are permitted to substitute bales and are not required to certify that the cotton they export is of an official U.S. standard.
In an earlier series of hearings, the subcommittee developed examples of other kinks of sale-resale transactions in agricultural commodities—rice, dry milk, and other items.

It was developed that one company sold a large quantity of dry milk to the CCC for one price, bought it back at 40% less, and then sold it back to the Defense Department for commissaries overseas at a 300% profit. In all this, the stuff never changed hands physically.
As a result of the subcommittee's revelations, the Department of Justice has recovered some money, but most of the cases involved are still pending or are on appeal.
There is some justification for the CCC's channeling, so far as possible, its commodities through private hands, especially if the foreign purchaser is a private individual or company. But certainly it is strange business when a middleman appears at a big profit in moving commodities from one government agency to another.
Especially since the whole thing is a transaction on paper only.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.