Americans Have a Right to Know
if Their Money Is Being Wasted
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Among the pungent passages in the Air Force manual which so embarrassed that service is the statement: "The idea that Americans have a right to know what is going on is foolish."
Such an attitude could be made a topic for vast levity and mirth, save for the fact that it would lead to an annual multimillion-dollar laugh. In the realm of sensitive military secrets there is a justified policy based on "need to know." Beyond that, in this society, the books of our departments must be open.
*
And it is fortunate that we civilians have in the comptroller general's office an able, thoroughgoing crew. They perform the service of unearthing waste throughout the bureaucracy and its outposts. Recently the comptroller general submitted a report on an Army undertaking at its Granite City (Ill.) engineer depot.
To alleviate a housing shortage the construction of 50 housing units was authorized with a cost limitation of $642,000. This amount did not apply to certain project items such as ranges, refrigerators, sewers, and roads.
Initial bids submitted by four different companies were all much too high and were thus rejected.
Nine days later, a second set of bids was submitted and one was accepted.
Let us examine the figures of the winning company's bids. Its original bid for the housing had been $765,232, far in excess of the $642,000 limitation. The successful bidder's second figure was reduced by 32% to $525,938, well within the cost limitation.
But costs of ranges, installation of refrigerators, fences and gates, and a government field office all went up 282% over the first bid. Cost of sanitary sewers rose by 325%. Concrete sidewalk costs soared 295%. Road costs rose by 318%.
The successful bidder had raised these non-cost-limitation items in his accepted bid by an average of 297% over his rejected bid. And this resulted in an accepted bid that was almost $20,000 higher than the rejected bid.
When discussing the matter, the successful contractor said that he had simply decreased the cost of the building to bring the price within the limitations and then used a percentage factor to increase the price of the items not subject to the limitation costs.
He further commented that he understood that if he received the award he was not responsible for cost breakdowns.
Be that as it may, it is strange that a group of Army engineers would countenance the acceptance of a bid in which the cost of a range for a home went from $143.24 to $403.94 and the cost of installing a refrigerator jumped from $8.40 to $23.68.
Apparently the engineers failed to look into the matter of what recourse might have been open to them in the face of this example of gross overcharging on certain construction and installation and the disregarding of a realistic cost breakdown.
*
The comptroller general feels that the full circumstances of the transaction should at the time have been referred to the Congress for consideration of special authorization. The Army has explained that instructions have been issued "to prohibit the making of awards which have the appearance of avoiding the intent of Congress as to limitations."
We taxpayers may take heart in these words and in the fact that the comptroller general will continue to keep our elected representatives and those of us who are interested informed.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.