RAYMOND MOLEY:
U.S. Employees Get
Jobless Pay Windfall
Among the many examples of waste and inefficiency in government operation which our able Comptroller General Campbell has uncovered is a strange distortion of the principle of unemployment benefits. He has reported to Congress that in 47 of our 50 states a retired federal employee — after a lump sum payment has been allowed — may also apply for unemployment compensation.
Secretary of Labor Mitchell is charged with the administration of unemployment compensation. The law which he administers provides for agreements between him and the states whereby state agencies, as agents of the United States, pay benefits to unemployed federal workers in the same amount, on the same terms and subject to the same conditions as payments made under the unemployment compensation laws of the states.
*
This treatment of retired federal employees is a very special windfall. For in some states unemployment benefits are reduced when they are paid to retired employees of private industry who receive pensions. But in those states they are not reduced in the case of retired federal employees.
Since 50,000 federal employees retire every year, the amount of extra compensation thus secured is considerable. Moreover, as the years pass, the number of federal employees eligible for retirement and pensions will increase. The windfall will get larger. The average age of such retirees is 62½ years.
This age for retirement is somewhat astonishing when it is considered that medical experts point out that the life expectancy has already passed 70 and will by 1966 reach 80. Moreover, with the progress of medical science, the health of people past 60 is improving every year.
★
Whether it is fair or not, in some private occupations competitive conditions are said to require rather early retirement. To give one example, advertising salesmen are regarded as past the point of efficiency at around 60. Moreover, in all private employment where there is competition the way must be opened for younger men and women who deserve promotion. But in government there is no such competitive stress. Working hours are not long, and vacations are provided. Anyone familiar with life among government bureaucrats knows that, aside from the eternal grousing about the boss, there is little or no stress. In private business the company is fighting for its life. The government has assured immortality and income.
This business of giving unemployment compensation to such retirees is a violation of the basic principle of the system. Unemployment compensation is said to be basically an insurance program. It is to tide a worker over during a period of involuntary unemployment. In short, as the Secretary of Labor has interpreted it, it is compensation when there is no job to be had. This principle does not apply to retired government employees. They are not unemployed because they cannot find work.
*
It should be remembered that, aside from this windfall, the retiring government employee is treated well. When he decides to retire and makes application for a pension which is honored, he also receives a lump sum of cash—a sort of severance pay.
There are many government employees who seek and get retirement and the benefits that go with it who also have in mind remunerative private employment in which they can spend some of the most productive years of their lives. Private industry may have need of their special skills and, in the case of high military and civil employees, there is prestige to sell. And now those who have neither skill nor prestige can get unemployment compensation. All at the expense of the taxpayer.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.