RAYMOND MOLEY:
Why Does the Army
Have a Ship Line?
The eternal laws of bureaucracy say that once a tax is levied, it is almost never repealed; once an incompetent is frozen into Civil Service, he is safe from all storms, and once the government gets its teeth into a business, it never lets go.
The Budget Bureau commissioned an engineering firm to look into the operation of a shipping line maintained by the Panama Canal Co., which is a government owned and operated affair under the Department of Defense.
★
The chairman of the board of the shipping line is an assistant secretary of the Army, its president is a major general of the Army, and the sole stockholder is the secretary of the Army. The advice to the Bureau of the Budget by its engineering consultant was that the line be discontinued.
And now the comptroller general of the United States reports that, in an effort to refute the evil belief that anything the Army does should not necessarily go on in perpetuity, the Panama Canal Co. has hired two engineering firms to refute the findings of the Budget Bureau.
The Panama Line, whose service is 70% commercial, is in direct competition with American private shipping companies which could provide the services with greater efficiency.
★
It has two combination freight and passenger vessels, the Ancon and Cristobal. Both are 20 years old. While the Merchant Marine Act requires that ships of private companies be replaced in 20 years, the Panama Canal Co., claiming that it is not bound by any such nonsense, proposes to keep these ships and spend $5 million of taxpayers' money to recondition them for service for another 10 years.
According to Maj. Gen. W. E. Potter governor of the Canal Zone and president of the Panama Canal Co., which operates the Panama Line, the ships "look a bit seedy." The furniture needs reupholstering, the swimming pools must be renovated, the clubrooms air-conditioned, and the dishwashers replaced. The boiler systems, turbines, and generators need repairs, and the electrical cables should be replaced.
Although they are still deemed seaworthy, this would seem like the prescription for scrapping. For with old ships, like old houses, rebuilding makes them look almost like new and costs only a little more.
The argument of the Panama Canal Co. is that the strategic Canal Zone needs its own supply facilities. But this is strange, since no other bastion of our defense, no matter how far-flung, enjoys its own shipping service.
There is an abundance of privately owned transport service on regularly scheduled runs between New York and the Canal Zone, the route of the government's line. Private capacity is 10 times the requirement of the Panama Canal Co. The Grace Line and the United Fruit Co., which have petitioned for discontinuance of the Panama Line, in 1958 alone paid $2.6 million in canal tolls. Thus they are paying for the deficits and refitting of their competitor.
★
The operation of such ships by the Army's agency is in direct contradiction to a 1953 directive of the Department of Defense:
"It is the policy of the Department of Defense not to engage in the operation of industrial or commercial facilities unless it can be demonstrated that it is necessary for the government itself to perform the required work or service."
The Hoover Commission reported in 1955 that "there does not seem to be any compelling reason justifying the continued operation of the steamship line."
Thus, we have buried in the vast appropriations for defense a considerable amount devoted to a wholly unnecessary purpose. And this continues, despite the recommendation of the Hoover Commission, the explicitly stated policy of the Budget Bureau, and federal law itself.
Perhaps, since the Army built the canal more than half a century ago, the Panama Canal Co. is regarded as a sort of sacred cow. But with taxes what they are, and requirements for necessities so high, there should be no room for the stabling of any sacred cows.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.