The British Labor Party's 'New'
Policies Should Mislead No One
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
One of the primary requirements for success in
politics is that the practitioner must not fool himself. He may and does
hoodwink his less astute henchmen and to win must
deceive a good half of the electorate.
But when he permits success to becloud his own
image of himself he has gone over the hill, far
from his origins, into a wild land where monsters
will smite him down.
I am therefore not supposing for a minute that
the members of the national executive committee of
the British Labor Party were fooling themselves
when, on March 16, they adopted a new declaration
of policies which seems to change, but actually does
not change, the party's socialistic aims.
Most of those who prepared the verbal confection are experienced politicians, and a few are accomplished masters of the
trade.
Among them were Hugh Gaitskell himself; Morgan
Phillips, the party secretary; Jennie Lee, good in
her own right and wife of the still-stricken Aneurin
Bevan, and Richard Crossman, a presently rebellious
member of the party brass.
The issue, presented last November at a party conference by Gaitskell, was
how to talk socialism but act private enterprise. In
his notable speech telling the party why it lost the
October election so disastrously, Gaitskell called for
a revision of the party constitution and the elimination of Clause 4, which declares for "the common
ownership of the means of production, distribution
and exchange."
Ten years have passed since the tide turned abruptly against the party
after it attempted to nationalize the nation's industries. Increasingly heavy
defeats have convinced the more practical members of the party that the
voters have accepted all the socialism they can endure for a long time to
come.
But the woolly minded fanatics, academicians and
dialecticians have refused to give up the ghost of socialism, even after it has
been abundantly proved that socialism is a ghost.
So the executive committee followed the old rule in politics. When confronted with contradictory
alternatives, it embraced both.
The old declaration for "common ownership,"
which goes back to the days of the Webbs, H. G.
Wells, and George B. Shaw, was retained. But a
"new, supplementary" statement of aims was
adopted to amplify the earlier simple statement.
As is always the case in a political "amplification,"
the new part is designed to obscure everything that
the originals sought to make plain:
"It (the party) is convinced that all these social and economic objectives can be achieved only
through the extension of common ownership substantial enough to give
the community power over the commanding heights of the economy
in recognizing that both public and private
enterprise have a place in the economy, it believes
that further extensions of common ownership should
be decided from time to time in the light of these
objectives and according to circumstances, with due
regard..."
The social and economic objectives which precede
this passage say in substance that everybody
should be healthy, wealthy and wise. They
don't say when, if ever.
Then the foregoing words say that in the light
of these objectives, and according to unspecified
circumstances, "the commanding heights of the
economy" should be controlled.
That nice expression, "the commanding heights
of the economy," was coined by Aneurin Bevan,
probably while he was gazing at the desolate
heights of the Welsh mountains near his constituency in Monmouthshire. So the party is
poised for a daring jump into a bed of down, but
so poised that it may never have to jump at all.
This is remindful of the words provided by Mark
Hanna and William McKinley in 1896 when half
the Republican Party was for bimetalism and the
other half for the single gold standard.
In the Ohio platform there appeared the statement that the party was
for a currency "as sound as the nation's honor."
No one thought that the soundness of a nation's
honor depended upon the sort of currency it asked
its people to accept for their goods and labor. Everybody thought only of
getting the nomination for McKinley. And he got it.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.