Symington Makes a Grave Error
in Justifying Federal Spending
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It was to have been expected that when Sen.
Stuart Symington moved more deeply into the orbit of the Presidential race he would ultimately be compelled to discuss something other than his favorite subject of our military defenses and the superiority of Russia.
That had been almost his sole contribution to Senate debate these seven years of his service.
★
In a television interview last Sunday he moved into the field of civil expenditures with what seem to be disastrous results.
Hitherto, he has been willing in the Senate to vote the straight line of Americans for Democratic Action and let it go at that. But when he sought to justify his high spending votes with nothing to guide him but his business experience he fell into an error which has been characteristic of "liberal" economics for more than 20 years.
In the late 1930s President Roosevelt began talking about balancing assets against debts certain public works which had been built with government money. In at least one budget he listed some of these but apparently was persuaded by a more conservative Treasury and Budget Bureau against using these "assets" to pay off the national debt on paper.
In substance, Symington said, when he sought to justify keeping up large domestic civil expenditures, that he was reminded of what he did when he was in business.
In those years, when a company in which he was interested would see an opportunity to manufacture something or other for which there was a market, it was sound business practice to borrow the money, dig a hole, build a building, equip it with machinery and later borrow money on the going enterprise.
★
Thus money borrowed against assets would produce more money and more assets, to be followed by more borrowing, etc.
Leaping from this perfectly sound concept of business practice, Symington made the fatal error of saying that the government should borrow money for highways and public buildings and consider them as assets to justify more borrowing. This is exactly what the New Dealers of the late 1930s were attempting to say in justification of vast enlargements of public works.
At that time, approximately in 1938, I asked a friend who was in the investment banking business to tell me what was wrong with this analogy. The man I consulted was Robert A. Lovett. He pointed out that such things as highways and public buildings built by government could not, under the principles of accounting, be called assets at all.
They were not productive of more wealth. They produced no revenue and thus were not something to balance against debts. Certainly, so far as government was concerned, they should not be borrowed against. They were, in fact, liabilities, since they had to be maintained with more money taken from the taxpayer.
The fallacy lies in changing the meaning of the word "asset." You may have bought something that is nice to have, but unless it can produce material wealth or can be sold to somebody in case of foreclosure, you would have no success in borrowing hard money on it. This is true of almost all public "investments."
★
It is interesting to note that the same Robert A. Lovett later became a very able assistant secretary of war for air and ultimately secretary of defense in the administration in which Symington served as secretary for air.
I suggest that Sen. Symington, before further promulgating this nonsense, consult his former colleague about analogies between business and government, including the meaning of assets.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.