Secret Convention Voting Would
Be a Boon to Fearful Delegates
Of all the piously declared frauds which have appeared in the political oratory and declarations this year, the greatest have been the profound gestures toward education, orderly government, and planning for the future.
But party leaders on both sides have never brought about order or planning in the conduct of their own business. And the most glaring example is the very important business of nominating a candidate for the Presidency.
*
As a method of selecting candidates, the convention is about 130 years old. It has changed very little except in mechanical details. Its basic weakness is unchanged.
Thoughtful people have lamented over this feeble imitation of representative government and party responsibility. Half a century ago a distinguished Russian, M. Ostrogorsky, wrote in the French language observations that have become a classic on political parties. His melancholy conclusions about the convention have been read thousands of times to students by professors of history and political science. His characterization was that the convention is a "co-
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
lossal travesty on popular institutions."
Not long after he wrote, the movement to reform the nominating process gave rise to the Presidential primaries in various states. But that, as we have just seen, has been used to compound the travesty through the slick management of candidate Kennedy.
By the use of large financial means and a big organization, Kennedy entered several primaries and — with his rivals either too busy doing their duty or short of cash — easily amassed a show of popular demand. This enabled him to gather a hefty number of pledged delegates.
*
The volume of such support culminated with a show of popular support created by polls, publicity, and public appearances. From then on, the going was excellent because of the characteristic great terror of politicians not to be caught backing a losing candidate. Of all things, the political mind is most allergic to lost causes.
To all of the influences which cut away the better judgment of delegates, the Presidential primary adds the devastating element of fear. It would be interesting to know what
the secret evaluations of the delegates are concerning the real qualifications of Kennedy as a possible President. In polls of governors, editors, members of Congress, and of Washington press representatives, Johnson rated far above Kennedy.
*
Thus, the defects in the nominating convention, augmented by the ill-considered primary system which all but destroyed party responsibility, were fully exploited by a candidate who by a serious consideration of qualifications is decidedly inferior to many other Democrats who might be entrusted with the grave responsibility of the Presidency.
Henry Hazlitt, in a letter to the New York Times, has suggested one device that might help rid the minds of delegates of fear. That would be to have the balloting secret. He argues that since it is fundamental that voters have a right to a secret ballot to remove them from fear and intimidation and to bring out their better judgment, this might with equal justification be applied to the voting of delegates.
This single device would not cure all the convention's defects, but it would be a step in that direction.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.