U.S. May Parallel Laborite Turmoil
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
No one should try to predict which party will win our Presidential election now, but if the Democratic candidate loses we may expect a bitter conflict among Democratic liberals and with their labor allies.
Party Division
Gradually there developed a three-way split in the party which since the crushing defeat in 1959 has now broken out in open and noisy conflict.
What has been happening in the British Labor Party since its defeat last October may well be the preview of an ideological battle here. An understanding of that dispute might well be instructive to political observers here.
In many respects the factors are the same: a national party in which politicians are being supplied ideas and economic arguments by a number of self-styled intellectuals supported in considerable part by rich labor treasuries. But our intellectuals have studied less, have had less political experience.
Long History
The study and practice of socialism runs a long way back before the New Deal gave the Democratic Party a program in the early 1930s. In essence it runs back to the founding in the 1880s of the Fabian Society, which was soon joined by George Bernard Shaw and later by H. G. Wells.
The studies of Sidney and Beatrice Webb and the Fabian Society provided the Society with economic arguments. Gradually its specific and modified version of Marxism took form in the Labor Party which ultimately absorbed and all but destroyed the old Liberal Party. The financial support and the membership of the trade unions gave this movement among intellectuals "a local habitation and a name."
Finally, after two brief periods in which its membership in the House of Commons controlled the government, the Labor Party really took over the government in the election of 1945. It then had six years in which to put into practice what it had been preaching for more than half a century. Meanwhile in the 1950s, conditions in Britain changed fundamentally and the more perceptive intellectuals in the party were able to see the effect of these upon the program of the party.
Hugh Gaitskell
witnessing the slow death of a great political party." So it is possible to recognize that the British have had a much longer time to absorb the fundamentals of free institutions to an evolving capitalist order in economic life. In that respect it is helpful in this election year to compare and contrast their views with those currently espoused by such American professors and economists as John Galbraith and Leon Keyserling along with Democratic Presidential aspirants Sen. John Kennedy, Sen. Stuart Symington, Sen. Albert Humphrey and Adlai Stevenson, and with Gov. Nelson Rockefeller.
Most Articulate
The most articulate and realistic of the intellectuals in the tottering British Labor Party are Gaitskell and Crosland. Both are trained economists, but since Gaitskell has the job of party leader and is a very busy man, Crosland has described the problem in more detail. His book, "The Future of Socialism," was written after he was removed from Parliament in the great defeat of 1955. It examines the old and new programs of the Labor Party. His answer is, in effect, that the "future of socialism" is not socialism at all.
Aneurin Bevan
John Parts
As to welfarism, Crosland said, "We cannot afford to spread social expenditures over needy and non-needy alike but must concentrate them heavily in those points where the need is greatest." Those members of Congress who favor omnibus housing, farm aid, and the Forand bill might note this.
Democrat Slogan
As to "economic growth," the slogan of the liberal American Democrats this year and of the Rockefeller, Crosland says that growth comes from investment and that a fixed rate of growth as a goal is irrelevant. Investment must come more largely from the 90% capitalistic sector rather than from the 10% government sector, but according to American liberals, the burden of investment should be radically shifted for to a doubling of the rate.
Crosland discusses the concept of "planning" so popular in the Clement Attlee period of the Labor Party. He points out that since planning involves in-creases licensing, rationing and controls, it merely increases the government bureaucracy and that there is no reason to believe that government can do better than what freedom of choice of consumer and producer does.
Crosland, however, is far from a believer in complete laissez-faire. He believes that government advice and some restraints are essential just as most enlightened American conservatives do. But they should be provided by government through advice and encouragement and financial policies rather than coercion or mammoth government "investment" through spending.
The American liberals' claim that the rate of our economic growth can be doubled by greater government "investment" in public works and welfare benefits has been accepted by at least three Democratic Presidential aspirants, Kennedy, Symington, and Stevenson, by the late aspirant Humphrey and, on the Republican side, by Rockefeller.
Nationalize Electricity
Their program would almost completely nationalize the key electrical industry. It includes economic planning on the part of the economy still in private hands, an immense growth of personal benefits through welfarism and lavish subsidies for certain favored industries.
This is old stuff in the United States, since it is, with a few frills added, the same as was urged by the more radical New Dealers in the 1930s in a wholly different economic climate from that which prevails now. But it is still older among British economists and intellectuals who provide ideas for the Labor Party. In the light of what Gaitskell and Crosland have said about the reasons for Labor's disastrous defeat last October, it can be seen that American liberals may be in for the shock of their lives next November. For American unionized workers may take a cue from their British counterparts who deserted the Labor candidates in large numbers. But American liberals apparently are not aware that their formulas no longer apply either to the changed condition of American workers or to the greatly altered character of the American economy of the 1960s.
Equal Restrictions
It was always held by Attlee and other old Socialists that there was nothing inconsistent in trying to establish a centrally planned economy in a nation with traditions of political liberty. But the experience of the British people with a Labor government from 1945-1951 taught many of them that a beneficent state could impose just as many hard restrictions on freedom as a capitalist economy.
It is this inevitable establishment of controls that is really involved in government planning of the economy. And in carrying the case to its logical conclusion, Rockefeller has shown the hollowness of the pretension that a government which plans the economy can still guard the freedom of the individual.
In his challenge to Vice President Nixon in the seventh of his "10 points" for utopia, he flatly comes out for compulsory arbitration of disputes in key industries. That means price and wage fixing.
The Kennedys, Stevensons and Symingtons would suppress this factor for political reasons.
Rockefeller, either through inexperience or utter reliance upon the people who provide him with ideas and speeches, took the final step. For planning means coercion, and coercion is not compatible with human freedom.
DOWN WITH THE SHIP—Here's how the British press pictures the plight of the Labor Party. Alfred Robens, who was regarded as a likely successor to Labor Leader Hugh Gaitskell until he recently accepted Prime Minister Macmillan's offer to become head of the National Coal Board, swims for a life preserver. An aide offers similar persuasion to Laborites who include Frank Cousins, Michael Foot, Richard Crossman, Woodrow Wyatt and Gaitskell. Raymond Moley examines Labor Party's plight in the London Daily Express article above.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.