RAYMOND MOLEY:
Nixon's Philosophy
Avoids Rigid Dogma
In the midst of the extremely difficult task of leadership, a political figure—especially a candidate in as diversified a nation as ours—finds it hard to make clear in a word exactly what his basic philosophy is.
This is made more confusing when we consider how inadequate are the expressions we use to describe where we stand so far as our preferences in public policies are concerned. The word "liberal" means many different things to many different people. A word like that becomes transformed over a period of years.
Adam Smith was a liberal. So was William Pitt. So was Edmund Burke. So was James Madison.
But these men would find that John Kennedy, Hubert Humphrey and Walter Reuther, who call themselves liberals, stand for the very policies to which early liberalism was bitterly opposed.
★
It is so with the word "conservative." To Metternich or Bismarck it would have sounded strange to hear Sen. Goldwater say that the essence of conservatism is opposition to centralized government. Bismarck would have found more comfort in the Democratic platform, which favors welfarism under a central government, than in the Republican platform.
Then there are specific issues which are glibly called by one name or another. Is it liberal or conservative to believe in more internationalism? Or in stronger civil rights legislation? Or in the conservation of natural resources? Wall Street is for internationalism and also, in spots at least, for a sound dollar. Is it liberal or conservative?
Richard Nixon has considered these confusing meanings very thoughtfully. In general, he has rejected them in defining what he is ideologically. He also rejects such combinations of opposites as were often used by Eisenhower in the earlier years of his administration, such as "liberal conservatism," or "conservative in money matters and liberal in welfare." For welfare costs money, and too much of it means inflation.
Nixon, unlike most politicians, learns more from reading than from listening. He actually reads books.
In a conversation Nixon mentioned a book he had recently read. It is a very big and important book, "The Constitution of Liberty," by F. A. Hayek, an Austrian who once taught at the University of London and is now at the University of Chicago.
★
Nixon mentioned that he agreed in principle with the summing up in Hayek's final chapter. In that, Hayek rejects both conservatism and liberalism because of the historical changes which have attended both. His philosophy follows the basic principles of Edmund Burke, the younger James Madison, and the great French commentator, Tocqueville.
Essentially, the common ground on which these men stood was opposition to the overcentralization of power in government generally and in a central government in particular.
Hayek's philosophy, he says, is best described in the traditions of Burke, the younger Gladstone, Lord Acton and Bryce, "for whom liberty, rather than equality and democracy, was the main goal."
This is not to say that Richard Nixon can as a party leader be dogmatic and doctrinaire in enforcing such a philosophy. But this basic inclination is to limit the role of the federal government to certain essentials and to work for more and more local responsibility, always holding the liberty of the individual before him in both economic and political life.
★
This essential belief is why it has been possible to hold together such divergent Republicans as Rockefeller and Goldwater. To Nixon the problem of statecraft is often made more difficult because the choice is not simply between right and wrong. It may be between two rights. For such choices as are involved in that problem, his reading and his convictions have amply fitted him.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.