Half of a new and highly significant book, "American Might and Soviet Myth," by the very competent editor of the Indianapolis Star, Jameson G. Campaigne, might well be read along with the fiction best seller "The Ugly American." For it documents with fact the novel's portrayal of the ineptitude, waste and failure of foreign aid.
The other part of the book is an appeal to Americans to shake off their fear, nurtured by politicians, that the United States is falling behind the Soviet Union in military might and economic vitality.
This is especially pertinent to the events of those weeks in which communism is shaking its bloody fist in the United Nations, while in the Presidential campaign we are being told of the Soviet's great military and economic power. The book is a summons for courage and belief in our ideals and traditions.
Campaigne cites some pertinent facts assembled by Prof. G. Warren Nutter of the University of Virginia after a visit to the Soviet Union:
"In steel, Russia is 25 years behind the United States; in electric power, 16 years behind; in coal, 47 years behind; natural gas, 52 years behind; fertilizer, 16 years behind; and paper production, 54 years behind."
There are plenty of other estimates to substantiate these figures. In fact, Prof. Nutter's estimate of relative production of electric power is too low. Elaborate studies made by representatives of the electric power industry put our advantage far ahead of the 16-year head start.
On the other hand, the deficiencies in our foreign aid are forcefully arraigned by the Campaigne book.
Here, too, they are substantiated by such official reports as have been submitted to the Senate by that indefatigable traveler Sen. Ellender.
On that subject it is difficult for either side in the Nixon-Kennedy contest to make a point. For the whole business of winning friends by a haphazard scattering of money over the world originated in the Democratic years and most of the losses in territory to communism were sustained then. Also, Democratic Congresses since 1955 have voted the money.
So far as the administration of those funds is concerned, since 1953, neither Nixon nor Lodge can make a point at this time. For they cannot well run against the administration of which they have been a part.
It is true, however, that both Republican candidates are well aware of the defects, and will energetically move to correct them if elected. In fact, Lodge is already talking of a drastic overhaul to that end.
Our incapacity to master the art of influencing the people in undeveloped nations in Asia and Africa is a major point in Campaigne's book.
The Soviet high command, it should be remembered, is largely composed of revolutionaries whose only weapons in the days when they were rising to power were infiltration, subversion, and the bold, big falsehood.
It was the revolutionary, Khrushchev, who was talking the other day before the United Nations. The parts of his harangue which seemed so absurd to the enlightened people of the West were the sort of stuff which is highly effective with people just emerging from colonialism or savagery.
It is well to meet abuse and exaggeration with reason, as President Eisenhower did so effectively. But something more is needed in those corners of the world where the struggle follows no enlightened rules.
Neither the State Department, nor the CIA, nor the other agencies dealing with the cold war are capable of meeting the Communist thrust. What is needed is a smaller, dedicated, trained counter corps to meet the Communists on their own ground. That agency should be responsible to the President alone. Until then, we may win in the United Nations, but will lose in the byways of the world.