Democratic Economist Galbraith
Doesn't Stick With the Truth
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is not often that a professor-economist has attained such authority in politics as has John K. Galbraith. He not only is a highly articulate pamphleteer, but as a member of the Democratic Party's advisory group, he exercises more influence on Democratic policy than any other individual.
This was abundantly shown in the Democratic convention when the major domestic theme of the keynote speech by Sen. Church, as well as the acceptance address of Sen. Kennedy, centered on the Galbraith thesis. So, in fact, did the Chester Bowles platform of the party.
Economists have had great influence in the past. John Maynard Keynes probably has had more influence in the period since 1930 than any other economist has had in a century. But he was never able to dominate the Conservative, the Liberal, or the Labor Party in his own country.
★
And so let us look at one of the latest Galbraithian outbursts and then look at the facts. These facts are not secondhand. I will recite what I have seen in the last six weeks. Galbraith says:
"The (American) family which takes its mauve and cerise, air-conditioned, power-steered, power-braked automobile out for a tour passes through cities that are badly paved, made hideous by litter, blighted buildings, billboards and posts for wires that should long since have been put underground..."
I shall come back to the sheer demagoguery of the comment about the family automobile, but first let us examine what he says about passing through cities. Here I can speak with authority. Galbraith wrote his popular best seller, "The Affluent Society," in Switzerland.
On July 15 of this year I left New York City (my car is not mauve and cerise, but maroon) for the West. From the George Washington Bridge to Aurora, Ill. — approximately 1,000 miles — there were turnpikes, and a new toll road around Chicago.
★
I did not touch a city street, and even the access to the George Washington Bridge was on the super East Side Highway. Philadelphia, Harrisburg, Pittsburgh, Youngstown, Cleveland, Toledo and Chicago were bypassed, at a speed limit of 60 m.p.h.
Then Des Moines and Omaha were not even approached. Most smaller cities in Iowa, Nebraska and Wyoming could be bypassed if one were not compelled to stop for shopping.
From Evanston, Wyo., there is a beautiful, fairly new highway—built since the "do-nothing" Eisenhower administration came into office—to a spot south of Salt Lake City. Then there is a fine highway to the vicinity of Los Angeles, where freeways extend in and out.
Going west and north, even Santa Barbara has a freeway, and the way is clear to San Francisco, which is accessible by freeways. Then, bypassing Oakland, Berkeley, Richmond and Sacramento, the way is clear to Portland.
That, too, could be missed, except that one must stop occasionally at a hotel. Freeways eliminate all problems at Tacoma and Seattle. Then Spokane, which certainly has no resemblance to the foolish ideas of Galbraith. Then back through Portland again and to San Francisco.
I would happily lend my maps to Galbraith. He would find this country quite unlike the political caricature he is depicting. Maybe Boston fits his picture. I don't happen to know. But since the Kennedys and Fitzgeralds have had a lot to do with that area, public improvements might begin in the Galbraith-Kennedy bailiwick.
★
Galbraith seems to have a virile hatred of the family automobile. His description may fit the cars of the plush Hyannis Port resort where he peddles his lore to the candidate. But out in the country the air-conditioned car is a rarity.
If his wife must shop, as those of most professors must, she will not say that power steering is a luxury.
And the vast proportion of cars over the country are as essential to the family, in home life and on vacations, as underwear and shoes. That I know from personal observation over my 6,100 miles of highway travel this summer.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.