Anti-American Riots in Tokyo
Stem From Occupation Policy
In evaluating the importance of the riots in Tokyo, threatening not only orderly parliamentary government but the American Embassy, some facts concerning the policies of the American occupation after the surrender of Japan in 1945 should be considered. What has happened recently is a form of mobocracy inspired by the left wing of the now divided Socialist Party and Communist-inspired unions. Disorderly rioters numbering in the tens of thousands invaded the Diet, practically imprisoned the responsible leaders of the two houses and practically isolated the prime minister in an attempt to prevent the approval of the U.S.-Japanese security treaty negotiated in Washington by Prime Minister Kishi and President Eisenhower early this year. By these tactics the leaders of these demonstrations hope to force the prime minister's resignation and frustrate the relations between the United States and Japan.
Pictures of the rioters shown in this country indicate a large percentage of young people—mostly teen-agers lashed to fury by skilled agitators. That most of this is Communist inspired is evident, for both the left-wing Socialists and the unions involved are plentifully infiltrated with Communists and sympathizers with
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Red China. It is well known to the police that large sums have been sent from Peiping to support certain of the leftist leaders of the Socialist Party. This demonstration of mob rule is not new. In the autumn of 1958 the Kishi government attempted to enact legislation strengthening the police protection of the government. Mobs invaded the Diet and prevented any action there, and finally the government had to abandon the police legislation.
It is ironical that these demonstrations against the United States should have their roots in certain naive actions of the American occupation administration more than 10 years ago. Gen. MacArthur was a very busy man in those days, and the bureaucracy in Washington permitted many American radicals to get into his administrative organization. Communists were released from custody and promptly entered the labor unions which were sponsored by the Americans.
At the same time, Japan's police organization was radically and foolishly shaken up. Police authority was completely decentralized. It was impossible to keep criminals and subversives under control because of the inability of one local unit to co-operate with another.
After the occupation, some improvement was possible but not enough. For example, it was possible for the national police authorities to discover the flow of Communist propaganda and money into political campaigns, but they were powerless to take steps to hunt out the guilty people and stop the operation.
At the same time the United States so minimized the military power of the nation that it could do nothing about protecting the government against internal attack. Thus, we loosed Japan's enemies and ours while we paralyzed Japan's capacity to protect itself. All this I learned during a visit to Japan a year ago. In the course of that visit I was able to make a rather careful survey of the situation so far as internal security was concerned.
If this rule by mobs should succeed, it is easy to see what would happen. Despite the fact that free elections have given Kishi's party a solid majority in the Diet, a minority is intent upon overthrowing that pro-American government. If that were done, there would be chaos in which the entire nation would be exposed to Chinese communism. The end would be the collapse of the best ally we have in Asia and in all probability all of Eastern and Southeastern Asia would be lost to the free world.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.