Public Power Lobby
Head Wants a Job
Since the election, tremendous pressure has been exerted upon Sen. Kennedy to recognize the National Rural Electric Co-operative Assn. by giving an appointment to Clyde T. Ellis, the creator and master of that important pressure group.
The aim of Ellis was first to get the secretaryship of the Interior. But that designation went to another advocate of public power, Rep. Udall. Then Ellis lowered his sights to the undersecretaryship of the department. At this writing, the post has not been filled.
*
Perhaps Ellis will be passed over and later given another job. But it is certain that the formidable power of Ellis and his organization will be a major policy determining factor in the Interior Department in years to come.
For both the Democratic platform and Sen. Kennedy himself are committed to greater extension of the government into the production and distribution of electricity.
Ellis came out of Bentonville, Ark. and was elected to Congress during the Roosevelt administration. He was defeated for re-election, but he remained in Washington and founded and built up what is now the most powerful pressure organization for public power in the nation.
★
Many a congressman and senator has yielded to the Ellis pressure. As a result, he has succeeded in keeping for the electric cooperatives a 2% rate on loans from the federal government, despite the higher cost of money to the government itself. President Eisenhower has unsuccessfully sought to raise the loan rate.
Ellis operates his association under the banner of representing the farmers' interests and claims that he speaks, for all the vast numbers who pay dues to his NRECA. Because of the freedom with which loans are extracted from the federal Rural Electrification Administration and the monopolistic position of many rural cooperatives, vast reserves have been built up. Any member of Congress who fails to vote as Ellis orders feels the weight of his influence.
*
He has been working for vast federal power projects from Passamaquoddy to the presently promoted Rampart Dam on the Yukon River in Alaska.
However, in the course of his activities he has made enemies, and one of them was Sen. Lyndon Johnson. Back in 1948 Johnson was angered at the pressure exerted by Ellis in behalf of the confirmation of Leland Olds as a member of the Federal Power Commission. The confirmation lost in the Senate by a vote of 53 to 15.
*
Speaking before a regional conference of the NRECA, Johnson said: "Because of one man's endorsement, REA co-ops were associated permanently with a propaganda campaign with which the REA should not have been involved. I tell you sincerely: You have a bigger job than to serve as a tool of the ... propagandists who want you to fight their battles for them."
It may well be that the Vice President-elect's opposition will prevail with the President-elect on this appointment. Since the Interior Department is supposed to represent the national interest rather than that of public power minorities, however powerful they may be, it is to be hoped that Ellis can be kept out of the new administration.