Among the very few defensible items in the aid-to-education miscellany sent to Congress by President Kennedy are the provisions for loans for college construction. But these would hardly scratch the surface of the problem claimed by higher institutions in meeting the predicted increase in enrollment from 3.6 million to more than 6 million in 1970. It is estimated that $18 billion will be needed for physical facilities alone. And considering the inflationary course now so heedlessly taken by the President and Congress, this dollar estimate is low. Such a sum is simply not in sight. Neither the federal government nor the states nor private donors nor parents, who are to feel an extra tax bite, can afford it. Realistic college administrators are beginning to realize this, and many are turning from the quest for more money to the necessity of using what they have and can reasonably get with more efficiency. Among these realists is James Creese, president of Drexel Institute of Philadelphia, whose institution has issued a most illuminating report, "Space and Dollars: an Urban University Expands." This report emphasizes the immense and growing importance of urban institutions. Those institutions located in the often congested areas of metropolitan centers already care for more than half the entire college population. Their attractiveness will grow beyond that of the quiet, romantic, secluded havens where at once students are nourished in the scholastic disciplines and in the gracious arts of wasting time. The urban institution offers the advantages of propinquity to sources of culture and scientific achievement. But more, it is coming to be the only place where medium-income parents can afford to send their children. It is a place where the student can live at home while he is getting an education. On the one hand, the urban institution, in caring for more students, is faced by limited and inflation-afflicted land costs and, on the other, by the problems of "high-rise" building, meaning skyscraper construction. For a while the solution seemed to be up there, as Gertrude Stein said of the United States, "where nobody is than anybody is." But that solution now confronts not only the big added cost of elevators, but the building regulations for fire exits, stairways and walkways, and the added costs in the lower parts of the buildings, larger ventilating doors, and in some places more facilities for air conditioning. The problem comes down to a greater and more efficient use of available space, and the Drexel report is merciless in showing how valuable space and facilities are now being wasted in the whole world of higher education. Reliable surveys show a shocking under-utilization of the space already available to colleges. In a study by Michigan State University of 64 colleges in the North Central United States it was shown that in 56 of these the average use of classrooms was 40%, and some ranged as low as 21%. Among the same institutions the utilization of laboratories (with expensive equipment) was 24%, with some as low as 10%. This study indicated that with efficient use of space, from 50% to 70% more students could be accommodated with no new construction. In one instance the chemistry laboratory was used for only two sections of students, a total of 10 hours a week. It was not necessary in an institution like Drexel to consider the gross waste of time in the arrangement of the college year. But it is obvious that by shortening vacations and eliminating the enormous and unnecessary proliferation of courses, the standard college course of four years could easily be shortened to three. With some imagination, the standard three recitations a week in a course could be cut to one lecture by a top professor and two quiz and discussion periods by junior instructors. Certain obvious reforms in present practices could save a year of students' lives. They could also offer the opportunity, for faculty members who wish to add to their incomes, to work as long during the year as the average executive or worker, without any appreciable injury to health or productivity. The real problems faced by our institutions of learning, from the first grade to the graduate level, are their own absurd traditions.