Did CIA Chief Dulles
Brief Kennedy on Cuba?
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Old enemies never die.
They merely refurbish
their rusty weapons. And
since Richard Nixon has
been so well endowed with
implacable critics, his new
book, "Six Crises," has
been combed for errors.
One of these critics is apparently in the White
House, for there was issued from that source a
denial that when Candidate Kennedy stated in
the 1960 campaign that action should be taken to
overthrow Castro, he knew that preparations for such
a revolt were already under way under the direction
of the Central Intelligence Agency.
*
The issue raised here between Nixon and President
Kennedy involves not only a grave matter of national
policy but of fairness and responsibility in
campaigning for the Presidency. This matter also had a
very significant hearing on the outcome of
the campaign.
On Sept. 23, 1960, Mr. Kennedy gave an exclusive
statement to the Scripps-Howard newspapers, saying,
"The forces fighting for freedom in exile and in the
mountains of Cuba should be sustained and assisted."
Then, on Oct. 20 of the same year, he said, "We must
attempt to strengthen the non-Batista democratic
anti-Castro forces in exile, and in Cuba itself, who offer
eventual hope of overthrowing Castro."
*
Nixon knew that such preparations for a revolution
in Cuba were already secretly under way, and he also
knew that his opponent had been briefed by Allen
Dulles, chief of the CIA. He therefore had no option
but to believe that Mr. Kennedy was recklessly using
that information to propose something which the
Eisenhower administration was preparing.
Before replying to the Kennedy statement, Nixon
asked Interior Secretary Fred Seaton to go to the
White House and find out if Mr. Kennedy had been
informed of the secret operations. Seaton reported
that the candidate had been so informed.
This put Nixon in a dilemma. If he joined in the
Kennedy advocacy of intervention, he would be implying
that such preparations were under way, because he was
known to have been a factor in making administration
policy with regard to Cuba.
All he could do was to charge Mr. Kennedy with
recklessness. Thus he was at a great disadvantage,
since it made him seem to be "softer" on Castro than
his opponent.
All this he revealed in his book. Then the White
House on March 20, 1962, issued a statement that Mr.
Kennedy did not know about the Cuban preparations
when he made his statements in 1960. And Allen Dulles
chimed in with a statement that there had been a
"misunderstanding."
Nixon then issued a statement standing by his
statement in the book and adding, "President Eisenhower
has authorized me to state that, following the practice
he had established in 1956, he had given instructions
that in regard to U.S. intelligence operations abroad
Sen. Kennedy was to be as fully briefed on our foreign
problems as I was."
If the critics of Nixon wish to be fair, which I doubt,
they would turn this question back to Messrs. Kennedy
and Dulles.
Did or did not Allen Dulles obey the orders of
President Eisenhower and tell Mr. Kennedy about the
Cuban preparations? If so, why does Mr. Kennedy now
deny that he knew what he was supposed to know?
*
A matter of veracity is involved here, or at least a
matter for clarification. But the Nixon critics have no
intention to be fair. Perhaps some of them who write in
the papers under their own names are really venting their
resentment because the Nixon book reveals some of them,
by name, as having been grossly unfair in reporting the
campaign in 1960.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.