Nixon Showed the Way
in Quarantine of Cuba
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In their demands for action against the Soviet Union so many weeks before the President acted Republican leaders demonstrated the great value of a two-party system.
And the timing of the President’s decision was to some extent designed to take from Republican candidates an issue of great importance. He could have made his demands and have instituted a quarantine just as easily and more usefully at least two months ago.
But his travels on his campaign tour brought him into close contact with what people were thinking. In effect, they told him to go back to Washington and do something.
One of the most articulate as well as the best informed Republicans on the Soviet Union and Castro is Richard Nixon, running for governor in California.
Others who demanded action were William E. Miller, Barry Goldwater and Bob Wilson, chairmen respectively of the three major groups of the Republican Party—the national committee, the senatorial campaign committee, and the congressional committee.
★
There were also Sen. Dirksen and Charles Halleck who urged and secured the passage in September of the congressional resolution mentioned by the President in his announcement on Oct. 22.
Thus, the President was not only assured of support for his action but reminded of the necessity for firm action.
Nixon met the President at the White House on April 20, 1961, the day after the disaster at the Bay of Pigs. He told Mr. Kennedy that he would support action if it were made and advised that steps were necessary to prevent a Communist beach-head in Cuba.
In September, 1962, Nixon interrupted his campaign for governor to make a statement which in the light of events since indicated great foresight and knowledge. He called for action at that time against the Soviet build-up.
He stated that the 5,000 Soviet troops who had been sent to Cuba constituted a clear and present threat to the United States and that the arms they had could not be “brushed off” as merely defensive.
He cited authority for this opinion.
Then he added that the President should decide that “the flow of arms into Cuba must be stopped by whatever means are necessary. To put it in one word, the Castro-Communist-Soviet regime must be quarantined.”
Then he pledged his full support as a leader in the Republican Party for “whatever action President Kennedy decides is necessary to quarantine Castro and communism in Cuba.”
This was more than four weeks before the President acted.
Nixon was speaking from very intimate knowledge of Soviet practices and of Castro himself. For when Castro came to the United States shortly after he gained power in Cuba. Nixon as Vice President had a three-hour talk with the Cuban dictator.
At that time he reported to President Eisenhower that Castro was either incredibly naive or Communist-oriented.
This sort of foresight and intimate knowledge would be invaluable in one of the highest offices of the nation, the governorship of California.
For while members of Congress are closer to the making of national policy, the governors of the major states are most important in the nation’s affairs—governors of states such as New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan and California.
These governors are not only close to the vital areas which would be involved in international policy. They are also close to the industrial means of national defense.
With governors such as Rockefeller in New York, Scranton in Pennsylvania, Rhodes in Ohio, Romney in Michigan and Nixon in California, the nation can be assured not only of bipartisan unity in a crisis but strong two-party leadership in shaping national policy.
This need is especially important in the case of Nixon in California. For no other individual in the Republican Party, except Gen. Eisenhower, has had so much experience in dealing with communism over the world and at home and has had such firm and consistent views toward its containment.
★
This is written from a perspective 3,000 miles from California. It is, I feel sure, in line with what most of the 34 million voters who preferred Nixon in 1960 believe.
While the voters of California must make the decision as to whether they will keep Nixon in public life, they will realize that their governorship is a matter of not only state concern but of national need in the critical years ahead.