French Economic Lesson for U.S.
Georges Pompidou, premier in the De Gaulle government, has announced a new plan to stabilize the French economy and to check inflation.
Most important among the government's plans is a proposal to reduce the deficit. The total spending budget, estimated for 1964, is about $19 billion. This would mean a deficit of about $816 million. The new plan is to cut this deficit by approximately 33% or $273 million.
On some manufactured goods which seem now to be priced too high, tariffs will be reduced to bring in competition from abroad.
Prices on manufactured goods are to be frozen at the Aug. 31 level and any changes will be made only after consideration by the government.
An attractive bond issue will be floated to siphon off excess private spending and to induce abstinence in buying by the people. Savings bank depositors will be encouraged to save more.
Also, installment buying will be discouraged by raising the down payment on automobiles and television sets. The payment period will be reduced from 24 to 21 months.
Efforts will be made to stabilize food prices without arbitrary price-fixing. Wage increases will be discouraged without the imposition of legal wage ceilings by the government.
Premier Pompidou has explained that while France has enjoyed a fine expansion of business and general well-being, there must be stability or all the gains will be lost.
The best way to assure such stability, it is believed, is to use the mechanism of credit, rather than to impose harsh restrictions upon the general level of the people.
In a relatively new nation such as our own, the lessons of history are seldom regarded with respect. But it is apparent that with a government such as is now in power in France the experience of France over the last two
De Gaulle
or three centuries is still a living guide. For France has seen economic disaster and even revolution come more than once because of economic excesses.
Inflation has almost always been the chief manifestation of governmental improvidence. Apparently, the present government of France, heeding those grim lessons, believes that the imposition or encouragement of these measures now can prevent a boom and the subsequent destruction of values by inflation.
For not only has France been enjoying a high rate of growth in the past few years, but inflation has been creeping up. Consumer prices have risen 16% the last three years.
One of the surest signs of trouble in any country has always been the rise of land prices. The collapse of the Florida boom, it should be remembered, preceded the great depression which began in 1929.
In any such inflation in land, immense speculative profits are made. The new French plan includes a proposal to impose heavier taxes upon land and building profits to curb speculation.
Also, it is planned toward the same end to slow down the increase in housing units. Ambitious plans to "renovate" cities and towns will be checked until the effects of these repressive measures are clearly in evidence.
All this should be a wholesome warning to our President and Congress. Savings by the people to provide security for old age or emergencies can only be accomplished by what economists call abstinence. We forego the urge to buy this or that, and put the money away.
Our present prudence builds our future well-being. To be sure, when we do put away some savings we do so only when we have some certainty that government will protect those savings by repressing inflation.
When our government shows prudence in administering its affairs, the effect upon all of us is twofold.
We profit by the advertising of this virtue, and we are encouraged to save because our government shows that it will take whatever heroic measures are necessary to maintain stable prices. When the future is clouded by the improvident policies of government, abstinence is forgotten.
The semblance of expansion takes place, and inflation is certain to ensue. Money flows into goods. This makes goods scarce, and prices rise still more.
There has always been a reckoning. And there must be a reckoning. A little austerity in time prevents total austerity later. This is what the present French policies should teach us all.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.