Discord in the Republican Party?
It's an Old, Old, Old, Old Story
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
In the weeks which intervene between a nation-wide election and the beginning of the congressional session in January, a condition prevails in the news-gathering and -printing industry which I have often in the past called the news gap.
Space has to be filled, and, if nothing newsworthy is happening, two courses are open to our esteemed profession of journalism. Either we must speculate about what will happen or we must blow up little things to fill our columns.
Some years ago, when I served as research director of the New York Crime Commission, I projected an inquiry into what was called "crime waves." It seemed that there was always a spate of news about crime in the period when the days were growing shorter and wintry temperatures were closing in.
Sentimentalists believed that since the rigors of climate were growing more severe, poor people were driven by hunger and cold to despoil their fellow citizens of items of property by felonious methods.
*
Those were the piping days before the depression, and I doubted this sentimental theory. In pursuing my researches, I found that the police records failed to validate the existence of an increase in crime in those weeks.
Further researches indicated clearly that what was happening was not a crime wave, but a wave of crime news. For crime is always with us, and it can always be used to fill gaps in the news.
At this season, when the streets and stores are filled with shoppers, automobiles are clogging the streets and highways, and the true spirit of Yuletide is buried in harassed wishing for the 26th of December, political commentators are, among others, worried by the lack of events to fill their allotted space.
Two subjects are always at hand, even in the most breathless holiday quiet. One is the so-called rift in the Republican Party. The other is speculation about who will or should be designated as the burnt offering in the next Presidential election.
Of course, there is also the coming deficit to comment upon and, this year, the possibility of a tax cut.
I have already considered the latter two in these essays. The deficit will be whopping. The possibility of a tax cut and what the nature of a possible tax cut will be are equally speculative.
Now so far as the "rift" in the Republican Party is concerned, this is stale news. Indeed, it is not news at all. As far back as 1896, when Republicans were selecting a Presidential candidate, there was a most vicious contest between the Hanna faction, which was backing McKinley, and the Eastern-Wall Street people, who were supporting Thomas B. Reed, speaker of the House.
The division was between the banking interests who were internationally minded, favored free trade and a gold standard, and the Midwestern manufacturing interests who believed in protection and were not wholly orthodox on the money question. Republican divisions on other issues persisted for many years.
With the great differences in the constituencies of the states, these differences will remain. Sen. Javits is a product of the voting majority in New York, just as Sen. Kuchel represents the peculiar interests of California. But such differences are inevitable in a national party and must be lived with. They do not necessarily mean the dissolution of the party.
*
The Democrats have like divisions. Those who envision a homogeneous party constituency are pursuing a vain hope. These differences are matters to be lived with and measurably adjusted by the processes of nomination and party compromises.
Speculation about a candidate in 1964 is an idle exercise. If the Republican Party organizations in the states are overhauled and improved, any one of several candidates has a chance to win. Without such improvements, no candidate can win.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.