GOP Has a Case in Every State

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

I have noticed this summer, with the 1964 election still 15 months away, two sorts of compilations of electoral votes designed to show that a Republican can be elected President next year. Some of these have appeared in the press. Some are privately distributed.

There is no harm in such a numbers game, except that in toting up the votes necessary to elect a man they carry the implication that certain states can be written off.

Since Sen. Barry Goldwater seems to be the most prominent potential candidate in these Republican speculations, such figure exercises are generally the product of people who are for or against his nomination.

One sort of compilation seeks to show that someone other than Goldwater should be nominated because he could carry New York and enough big industrial states, especially in the eastern half of the country, to win. These figures write off the South.

Another type, which favors Goldwater, would "give" him the South, most of the West except California, and a sufficient number of Midwestern states to win. New York and several industrial states are written off.

★

One of these is a fetching little essay which has had wide distribution by a would-be king-maker. His composition is a "blueprint" for Republican success. Interestingly enough, this individual apparently did not vote for the Republican ticket in 1960 and 1962.

He is probably what I call a "conditional" Republican. This means a person who will support the candidate if the GOP convention nominates the man he wants.

Real professionals in politics may make guarded claims, but they concede nothing. They fight for every state, just as Nixon and Kennedy did in 1960.

If a candidate or his managers conclude a week or two before election that their cause is hopeless in some state or states, they keep their opinions to themselves. For Americans don't like to be taken for granted.

Republican chances in 1964 anywhere cannot be predicted now. Almost everything depends upon what happens to or for or against President Kennedy in the many months ahead.

The test ban agreement—which at the moment is a plus for him—may turn sour, or it may be followed by better and better relations with the Soviet in the months ahead. What will be the trend of the balance of payments and the outflow of gold? What will be the economic situation in 1964?

And since Republican speculation mostly concerns the question of civil rights and race relations, we shall have to wait to see what happens to the Kennedy status with both Negroes and whites as events unfold themselves.

There can be no assurance that the present 90% Democratic preference of Negro voters will remain unchanged, or that this preponderance of Negro votes for the Democrats will or will not alienate many white votes.

If demonstrations get out of hand, many Negroes will be alienated from their present leaders. Some of their leaders are already critical of the administration and of Congress.

★

It must be remembered before any states are written off that a Republican candidate—Goldwater himself, in fact—can make an excellent case for Republicans on the civil rights issue.

A tabulation of Senate votes since 1933 and up to 1962 shows that a majority of Democratic senators have voted against civil rights issues in every instance except two. At the same time, in every case except one a majority of Republicans have voted for such measures, in five cases by 100%.

In the House, Republicans have outvoted Democrats in proportion to their strength. House Republicans have scored from 68 to 100% favorable to civil rights, while Democrats have failed to muster a majority in half of the roll calls.

Even in the South, Republican majorities in cities are far more favorable to Negro rights than Democratic majorities in non-urban districts.

★

These facts, which Goldwater or any other Republican candidate in 1964 can show, mean that no one can reasonably write off the South for any Republican candidate.

This Republican showing will influence at least a good minority of thoughtful Negroes, but many more white people who are tired of Democratic intra-party fighting over the subject.

Thus, no state can be written off glibly on this issue.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.