Quackery in Political 'Medicine'
It is unfortunate that before the Ecumenical Council completed its deliberations it did not add an eighth sin to the seven which as a boy I was required to memorize from my catechism. This is, according to Webster, "The practices and pretensions of a quack"—a quack being a "pretender" to medical skill which is not there.
The medical profession has spoken and acted against quacks since the days of Hippocrates. Quackery is an especially cruel offense against innocent fellow beings.
In practice it offers the promise—for profit, of course—to afflicted individuals of a "cure" through means that cannot be justified by scientific tests or experience. While the victim is using the supposed remedy, he is neglecting methods of treatment which are not spectacular but are genuine and helpful.
*
In every legitimate organization dedicated to conquering one or another of the diseases that afflict the human race, the utmost care is taken to excite nothing but rational hopes of relief.
Politics, as we all know, has no such ethical bars against raising false expectations. Promises are made which under rational examination prove to be impossible of fulfillment.
It is in the general realm of this unfortunate practice that the Johnson administration has promulgated the idea that plans have been made to abolish poverty in the
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
United States. Unfortunately, many members of the press, including some widely read and widely heard commentators, perhaps because this is an interim when news is so scarce, have fallen for this old gag.
I say it is old because Julius Caesar, a consummate demagogue, won his imperial way in Roman politics by feeding the multitude out of the riches he purloined from the provinces he conquered and out of the riches of the patricians he killed and robbed. For a while the beneficiaries of Caesar's largesse had a wonderful time.
But poverty remained, and the Roman character deteriorated while Caesar's successors wallowed in gaudy luxury. Ultimately, those deluded people were conquered by the sturdy minions of the provinces the Caesars had conquered.
I regard with enthusiasm the fact that because of our economic growth, wise philanthropy, and the humane actions of our government, the well-being of Americans has risen spectacularly in the past century. And the end of improvement is not yet, if we avoid political nostrums.
The promise of extinguishing poverty is, however, presented as something new, a discovery by a political regime which claims that it, and it alone, has a heart and has discovered humane virtue. We are told that because one-third (some say one-fourth) of our families have an income of less than $3,000 a year, they are perforce poor.
★
Those statistics and the inferences they convey are pulled out of the air. Many families with such incomes are living comfortably. They do not call themselves poor. In alleviating needs we must consider individual cases.
The political motivations of this "new" proposal to abolish poverty will be clear when the budget is submitted this month. Faced by the spending of something more than $100 billion, this administration cannot cut welfare programs already in existence. That would be fatal in an election year.
So, in submitting a long list of requests, someone thought up and President Johnson suggested the idea of packaging all these with a nice and alluring generality, "The abolition of poverty."
Why? Everybody wants that. But Americans should realize that the coming program is merely "the same, but more."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.