MacArthur Didn't Try
to Be a 'Common Man'
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It should have been
wholesome for Americans
to pause in their daily
occupations and, for the
span of a week, consider a
great and uncommon man
— what he was, what he
did, and what he said and
how he acted as an individual. I have never forgotten a one-sentence editorial in a New York newspaper published some years ago. It said: "Douglas MacArthur is the only man in the world who is as good as he thinks he is."
I am not concerned here with the valid reasons why Gen. MacArthur should be enshrined with great military geniuses of the past—with Nelson, Napoleon, Gustavus Adolphus and Hannibal. I am concerned with the fact that he acted the part that he earned by his consummate genius.
Because of what he did, he brought down upon himself a comment by a man who, despite some of his decisions as President, was certainly not an uncommon man.
★
Mr. Truman has been reported as saying that one of the reasons he removed MacArthur from his command was because he did too much "strutting around." That criticism has been echoed over and over because Douglas MacArthur was not only a great leader of men. He acted the part.
A consideration of this trait is pertinent now when candidates for office, from the Presidency down, seem to believe that they must act not as leaders to trust and follow, but as if they were no better than the people whose votes they seek to snare.
Since Gen. MacArthur's death, I have had the opportunity to talk about the late general of the Army with a four-star admiral who served with great distinction in the Pacific war.
He said that while there were solid reasons for personal showmanship, no one should try it unless it is a part of his nature.
In Gen. MacArthur's case it served well. In the first place, his forces were scattered over a vast area, and only a minority ever saw or heard their supreme commander directly.
To inspire those forces with his own courage and confidence, he had to take advantage of methods of most vividly communicating the image of his personality. He necessarily demanded and obtained respect, dedication and loyalty to a common objective. This was accomplished by easily understood dramatic and unforgettable performances.
Long Asiatic experience taught Gen. MacArthur something of the nature of the vast backdrop of races in the population of the continents and islands over which the campaign moved.
In Japan, a nation had been held together by the devotion of the people to the image of the emperor. To impress upon that conquered population the reality of the occupation, Gen. MacArthur must of necessity have acted as the peer, even the superior, of the imperial authority.
★
How well he did that is a matter of history. The admiral with whom I talked said that despite the brilliance of Gen. MacArthur's generalship in the war, his achievement in governing Japan was even greater.
Leadership demands personal identification. Gen. MacArthur was an authentic leader. But woe betide the inferior man who seeks by personal showmanship to make people believe in him. MacArthur's showmanship had behind it the substance with which great objectives are won.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.