Urban Areas of South
Turn to Republicans
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
DALLAS— This amazingly vital city has emerged from four months of not too comforting national popularity. The good citizens of the city—and no city in the world has a higher average of goodness—have resented deeply the comments and inferences drawn from the sensational events following the assassination of President Kennedy, including the fantastic Ruby trial.
But while some worry about the impairment of the city’s image the more sober view is to forget the past and concentrate on the present and future. News is where the unusual is happening, and comment follows the news. The pity is that so many Northern commentators projected their theories without even visiting Dallas or if they did visit it, they morbidly concentrated on social and political pathology.
My concern in this visit to the South has been with the emergence of a two-party system in several states. I shall not dwell upon the more obvious and superficial political questions which are asked frequently in the North. One question frequently asked is “Will the emergence of Lyndon B. Johnson as a candidate overwhelm the trend toward Republicanism which was so pronounced during the Kennedy years?”
The answer is speculative. For it depends upon the candidate selected by the Republican Party at its convention in July. Goldwater is still the great hope of the Republicans in the South. Almost all states would prefer Johnson to Rockefeller. But if Robert Kennedy is selected as the Democratic candidate for Vice President, Mr. Johnson’s chance of carrying more than one or two states will be dim.
*
The basic question that concerns the more thoughtful and progressive citizens I have met in six states during the past three weeks is this: “Will the emerging economic progress which is so evident from Charleston to El Paso be accelerated by the rise of a genuine two-party system, or can economic growth be maintained with a one-party system inherited from the past?”
I posed this question during a very interesting meeting I had with a group of business and civic leaders in Dallas. While some of those men prefer to remain loyal to the Democratic Party I drew the conclusion that most have accepted the emerging of the Republican Party as a healthful and hopeful reality.
But the choice of those who choose to remain in the Democratic Party deserves note because of the special political conditions that prevail in Dallas. One gentleman pointed out that there are two Democratic parties in Texas. One faction is liberal and wholly dedicated to the policies of the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. The other is more conservative than the Republican Party over the nation. It is best, he holds, to maintain this division without the projection of a third force by the Republicans.
*
The electorate in the Dallas region, however, shows a preference for Republicanism. Bruce Alger has been representing Dallas in the House of Representatives as a Republican for 10 years. Dallas gave majorities for Nixon and Eisenhower in national elections. The new mayor of Dallas is a Goldwater Republican, and a highly respected businessman.
But while Texas has been able to split the Democratic Party into two opposing factions this is not true in the other states I have visited. And the only hope for conservative and progressive trends is in the Republican Party.
The industries those states hope to attract have a concern not only for economic opportunities, but for a favorable political climate. Any sort of political climate is not consistent with an entrenched one-party system. The ministers and technicians who are brought to the South with these new enterprises will demand a political choice, such as they have had in the North. Moreover, the young people in the South who come to the urban areas to engage in these new industries are not willing to be pawns in an obsolete and unenlightened one-party system.
The proof of this is that in every state I have seen in the South the urban areas are voting heavily, if not in majority, for Republican candidates. The relationship between economic growth and a healthy political climate is too obvious to be ignored. Republicans in every urban area will become dominant, just as they have already captured Dallas.