Perspective
The Distance and the Direction
by Raymond Moley
MANY Americans in discussing the present state of British politics say "What's become then is such agreement on domestic issues between Labor and the Conservatives, that it really bills down to who between them can better carry them out." This view that the Conservatives have stolen socialist ideas and can claim only that they can carry them out with more efficiency.
These comments are from neither of the present fundamental policies of the two parties nor the contrasting origins of social reform.
In the middle of the last century, the British Conservative Party was created out of the disastrous experience of the Industrial Revolution. It was the supreme genius of one man, Benjamin Disraeli. This is the Conservative Party who clearly understood that this man came from one of the great pillars triumph of the industrial system. The machines owned the new machines in the feudal aristocracy, which held a monopoly of land. Against this had to be arrayed against a disgruntled defeat that he was a poorer, a party politician. He also suffered from the prevailing prejudices against the nationalism of his fathers.
In building his party policies, he fought against all of the interests have mentioned by a supreme national interest, symbolized in the Crown and the rule of law. His party was made to have its representation in the whole of Parliament. Behind the institution of universal suffrage in 1867 was sought to array the massive strength of awakening masses of workers, both rural and urban. This was partially accomplished by sponsoring a series of long-needed social reforms. He invented what historians call "Tory democracy," the prototype of what the Conservative Party now calls a "property-owning democracy."
Disraeli's plan for political reform was set forth in the novel "Coningsby," and his portrayal of the need for social reform in "Sybil." Both of these prophetic political novels of 1844 were published years before Karl Marx wrote "Das Kapital" and decades before socialism in the Fabian Society. Once vested with power at the lead of a ruling party, Disraeli secured the passage of laws designed primarily to protect the health and safety of the working class, to protect the farmer from land monopoly, to improve the lot of women, to protect investors and the savings of the poor.
Behind the suffrage, The Socialists have followed rather than led. Conservation is moral, not mechanical reform.
The present Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer, R.A. Butler and many other Conservatives have said: ". . . This country can, if we manage our national affairs properly . . . look forward to doubling the standard of living for all in the course of the next 25 years. If we can double our productivity, we can double the size of the national cake, and everybody will have twice as much."
There have always been no modern and competitive Labor policies that take the cake to result at triple the size in modern times, but they lose sight of this vastly more important aim.
In 1945 Labor made a determined bid to establish a level of living below which no man woman can fall through sickness or misfortune, and we have come a long way.
True, said very little of nationalization had its considered policy as it was originally conceived. But Labor has become more and now more socialist.
PRECISELY called a very intelligent officer of the Labor Party if it could not be said that, while the two parties are moving toward some common policies, in the direction in which they proposed to go there was much difference in the aims. To this he thoroughly agreed. For as he explained it, and as men like Herbert Morrison have increasingly made clear in speeches, it was the intention of Labor to have government assume full control of the resources of the nation. In contrast, the faith of the Conservative Party is in freedom and private hands, subject to reasonable regulation. There is a profoundly important difference.
[Newsweek, June 14, 1954]